I'm wondering who and why decided that to use such expressions in inter-hunan communication is normal? Nobody talks like that with friends or family. On TV they don't speak like that. Why office is a right place for that?
The Russian anti-COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V is 92% effective and has the advantage of being storable in a fridge rather than a freezer. For most developing countries in Africa and South America, this vaccine is real salvation.
Natural History Museum, London, UK.
Albrechtsburg, a 15th century Late Gothic and early Renaissance castle on a hill above the river Elbe flowing through the town of Meissen, Saxony, Germany.
Hey, in this newsletter issue: a searchable index of 3000 ML datasets, an approach that achieves 112x size reduction in DL models, a paper explained, spaCy v3.0 release notes, why future advances in AI need a new architecture, why companies are thinking twice about using artificial intelligence, and more.Subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox.#ai #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ml
The Trinity College Library in Dublin dates back to the establishment of the College in 1592 and it is the largest library in Ireland.
Barcelona, Spain.
The two most common comments I receive about my books are 1) I wish I had these books when I started my journey in ML years ago and 2) I recommend your books to all my friends and colleagues.
19th-century apartment buildings, Paris, France.
Prinsengracht 154, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
The review of my book by Chrispen Shumba. If you want to see genuine joy, watch this video!
Another important milestone for my book. 2000 people marked it as "to-read" on Goodreads.com.
Technical University’s Library in Iași, Romania.
This week's newsletter was just emailed to the subscribers. In this issue: Microsoft wants to make a chatbot that could let us ‘talk’ to dead loved ones, AI in architecture: is it a good match?, three mysteries in deep learning, an AI chess engine that aims to help human players rather than defeat them, seven legal questions for data scientists, and more.Subscribe to received new issues to your email inbox once a week.#ai #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ml #deeplearning
Be careful when buying data for machine learning: you can purchase crap generated by a poorly trained model disguised as an original dataset.
Hotel Belmond Caruso, set in a former 11th-century palace overlooking the Amalfi Coast, Ravello, Campania, Italy.Oh, Italy!
This is why I love cinema: for magic.
The Hive at NTU, Singapore.
Thanks to pre-trained transformers such as BERT, the need for labeled data has been drastically reduced. Now there's absolutely no excuse for a data scientist who says that data labeling is not a data scientists' job.
Akashi Kaikyō Bridge is a suspension bridge, which links the city of Kobe on the Japanese mainland of Honshu to Iwaya on Awaji Island in Japan. The bridge has the longest central span of any suspension bridge in the world.
This is the oldest photo of Paris and the first-ever photo of humans. This is a daguerreotype taken in 1839 by Louis Daguerre. The same year the daguerreotype was made commercially available and is therefore generally accepted to be the year of the invention of photography.The photo was taken at the Place de la République, one of the city’s main squares. The streets seem unusually quiet, but this is in fact because the technique used required such a long exposure time, that passing movements were not captured.There are two visible silhouettes. They appear to be a man and a shoe shiner, sat on the edge of the pavement.
To the situation with GameStop: short selling (when an investor borrows a stock, sells the stock, and then buys the stock back to return it to the lender) is so crazy that I'm really confused why it's legal. Other than stock market manipulation, what good can come out of doing that?
Cafebrería El Pendulo Polanco, a bookstore with seatings in Polanco, Mexico City, Mexico.
In case you missed it, Reddit flashmob made the GameStop stock rise without bound. That's crazy that our savings are in the hands of such incompetent people as traders.
Wanted to post a job on Indeed.com but they seem to have blocked me preventively. Did my previous machine learning jobs contain an obscene lexicon or something worse? Will never know.
I have a place in my machine learning team at Gartner in Quebec City. It's reserved for an exceptional candidate, both an expert in ML theory and a skilled programmer. Remote work is possible for residents of Eastern Canada/Quebec.If you know someone who fits this description, please let me know!----J'ai une place dans mon équipe d'apprentissage machine chez Gartner à Québec. Elle est réservée à un candidat d'exception, à la fois expert en théorie du ML et programmeur expérimenté. Le travail à distance est possible pour les résidents de l'Est du Canada / Québec.Si vous connaissez quelqu'un qui correspond à cette description, faites-le moi savoir!#ai #artificialintelligence #ml #machinelearning
E-commerce and other internet-driven businesses were valued at USD $9 trillion in 2019. It's hundreds of millions of workplaces around the globe. All that is only possible because WWW is based on an open standard that allows 1) hosting your business independently and 2) scraping the data. Modern AI is also possible thanks to the Web's openness.You can see what would have happened if Apple and Google were there before WWW. They would establish a closed ecosystem of two app stores where they would dictate who can do what and where it's they who get the biggest part of the pie.I can say without exaggeration is that the possibility of simple data scraping is the foundation of the modern online economy and AI.
Municipal Law Library (Juristische Bibliothek) in Munich, Germany.
Antwerp central station, Antwerp, Belgium.
50% Cloud restaurant, Mile, China by CCD.
Australia wants Google to pay news websites for links and search result snippets Google displays to its users. Google threatens to shut down search in Australia. If the situation looks absurd, it's because it is.If Australian news websites get paid to appear in Google search results then why all other websites don't? I'm sure Wikipedia wants to get paid each time it appears in Google search results. So do Github and StackOverflow. What do politicians smoke in Australia? Something local?
The US rivers
In this new issue of my weekly AI newsletter: machine learning: the great stagnation, AI researchers rank the top AI labs worldwide, detecting hate speech in multimodal memes, how to talk when a machine is listening, AIs still don’t really understand language, Julia adoption keeps climbing; is it a Python challenger?, and more.Subscribe to receive the new issues in your email inbox.#ai #artificialintelligence #ml #machinelearning #deeplearning
Start your AI journey with the first book then solidify your practical machine learning skills with the second one.
Restaurant on the River Ill, Strasbourg, France.
Prague, Czechia.
10 most important machine learning algorithms:1. Gradient descent10. Expectation maximization
No matter what the media say, Google contributed (and is contributing) to AI and computer science more than any private company ever contributed to any scientific domain.
Mannheim, Germany.
Temple Expiatori del Sagrat Cor, Barcelona, Spain. It's the work of the Spanish architect Enric Sagnier completed by his son Josep Maria Sagnier i Vidal. The construction of the church lasted from 1902 to 1961.
Each time you search something in Google, click on a search result, and the target website blocks the content and asks you to subscribe first, know it's cloaking and forbidden by Google for any website that wants to be in Google's index.Feel free to (and I encourage you to do so) report such websites to Google and cite cloaking as the nature of the violation. Use "Send feedback" link at the bottom of the search result page.Letting Google bot crawl the website entirely, and then hiding the information from real people coming from Google, is a fraudulent practice and must be fought against.
Modern machine learning research
Prague, Czechia.
This is the first year in our hiring practice when we don't ask candidates how specific ML algorithms work. Unless you are hiring a research scientist, you shouldn't either. Starting in 2021, ML is officially an engineering field.
Tyrol, Austria.
I once worked with a guy who told me that what we do (my ML team) is easy, because we work with "yes or no" problems most of the time.The thing is, most business problems are not "yes or no" problems. They are "what should I do" problems, or "how can I be sure" problems, or "what does that mean" problems, or "what if" problems. The trickiest part for an ML team is to reduce a given business problem to one or several "yes or no" problems. An not just reduce, but also find the data that could be used to train these models, figure out a resource-efficient way to label this data, make sure that, in production, this data will be available in a needed quantity and quality, and what to do when it's not.Once you have your "yes or no" problem, then sure, from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression, or whatever your preferred Python command is.
Twitter stосk dоwn by 20% following the Trump ban. Telegram has got 25 million new users in three days, including two presidents. The biggest digital migration in history.========This is what will happen (in my opinion). Twitter's biggest reason for discussion is arguments between political or social opponents. When the entire political spectrum (say, both Dеmоcrats and Rеpublicаns) are on Twitter, they actively insult one another in the comments to their tweets. This creates an addiction and a huge money flow for Twitter. If one group leaves Twitter, say Rерublicаns, Dеmоcrаts will no longer have anyone to argue with. The biggest chunk of discussion will stop.As a consequence, over time the remaining users will lose interest in using Twitter (at least as frequently as before) and the money flow will become even smaller. Big influencers will see a decrease in activity and will create accounts elsewhere. It's a chain reaction.Twitter seems to shооt оneself in the fооt.
Hey, it's the 50th issue! In this one: Google trained a trillion-parameter AI language model, which machine learning classifiers are best for small datasets, the illustrated Transformer, 2020 state of enterprise machine learning report, when should you not invest in AI, and more.#ai #artificialintelligence #ml #machinelearning #deeplearning
I have a Twitter account where I post everything that I (personally) don't qualify as a LinkedIn post. For example, my recent tweet is about awesome sci-fi movies that costed $100k or less to make. Check it out:
A volcanic eruption as seen from the ISS.
ML rule #1: don't use it when you can solve the problem using traditional computer programming.
I don't understand that excitement about Signal or Telegram as alternatives to WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. They will exist as long as Google, Apple, and Amazon let them. If you don't agree, ask Parler.
The Dipòsit de les Aigües was designed in 1874 by architect Josep Fontserè, as a reservoir building to store water for the nearby Parc de la Ciutadella. It now serves as a fully operational library and is part of the Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, Spain.
Chongqing Art Gallery, China.
Atrani, Italy.
One thing is clear now: for a country to be truly sovereign, it's not enough to have a nuclear weapon and secure borders. After what happened in the United States during the past week, a truly sovereign country, from now on, will rely on its own web search engines, mobile application stores, social networks, video hostings, messengers, and cloud providers. I expect much of this to become a new trend for startups in the years to come.The big tech of the United States has lost public trust. Yes, it's very convenient to have one country and half a dozen companies to deal with. But the price of this convenience is sovereignty lost in a matter of a click following a decision of a tiny group of privileged foreigners.
"Beware of destination addiction, a preoccupation with the idea that happiness is in the next place, the next job, and with the next partner. Until you give up the idea that happiness is somewhere else, it will never be where you are." —Robert Holden
Every mental disorder diagnosis: https://lnkd.in/g6Ngdag (hi-res)
A nice review of how OpenAI's recent DALL-E model *probably* works:
Twitter just crossed the line you cannot uncross.
Following my complaint, Manning will change the title of their book from "Machine Learning Engineering" to "Machine Learning Engineering in Action."To all those who told me "title of your book is generic so anyone can take it and it's OK," it's not OK. The decision of Manning to change the title demonstrates that there are industry rules and best practices and, being a responsible and key player, Manning follows those rules and best practices. Otherwise, it would be chaos.
If it's so easy for armed people to get into the parliament building of a nuclear country, the World is in great danger.I'm not kidding. The US internal security seriously sucks. What else can be captured by civilians armed with a couple of guns? A nuclear station? The nuclear case?
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: a neural network creates images from text captions, another neural network translates between programming languages, how artificial intelligence will be used in 2021, 10 AI failures in 2020, artificial intelligence solves Schrödinger’s equation, and more.Subscribe to receive future issues in your email inbox.#ai #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ml #deeplearning
If you work in machine learning, imagination is just as an important skill as programming.
Casa Odyssia, Corfu, Greece by Krak Architects.
Admont Abbey Library, Admont, Austria.
Two books to start the year with :-)
I started to believe that it would never happen, but I'm happy to be wrong: Jurafsky and Martin are releasing the third edition of "Speech and Language Processing." A draft is already available on their webpage. Can't wait to grab my copy!
As a Russian, just celebrated New Year with my family over Skype. The traditional Putin, Champaign, and Olivier are just as good on remote :-)Happy New Year!
It's because of reviews like this why you should not trust Amazon's average scores. Even if you complain to Amazon, they respond something like "We let our customers freely express their feelings. Your request for review withdrawal is rejected."UPD: Other reasons for the 1-star review I saw:- "The book doesn't include the bookmark!" 1-star- "The book cannot be read in Cloud Reader!" (which wasn't promised) 1-star- "The book came with the cover folded!" 1-star- "The info from the book can be found on Wikipedia!" 1-star- "The price is too high!" 1-star- "The price was higher when I bought it! Why now it's lower?" 1-starUPD2: I only managed to get one such 1-star review removed by Amazon for my book. The review was like this: "I have found this book online for free, but it was 11 PDF files to copy on my device! 1-star"
New standard for meeting planners in 2021: unless it's all hands, the planner must privide detailed explanation *for every invitee* why they were invited. Share to make it happen.
They tell you that to understand modern machine learning, you must understand linear algebra and probabilities/statistics. They don't tell you that you only must understand the first derivative, mean, standard deviation, and what a normal distribution looks like.
BMW headquarters, Munich, Germany.
The internet is full of tips on how to deal with poor model performance when your labeled dataset is small: transfer learning, hyperparameter tuning, ensembling, pseudo-labeling, data augmentation, and much more. All that is a waste of time if you can spend it labeling more data.
Didn't hear about cyclical learning rates before. Looks like it becomes the standard state-of-the art training technique. It is simple, not computationally heavy, and seems to provide significant gains at almost no additional cost.
Epic
France is bacon
This year I made several attempts to understand interpretable machine learning (IML) as a research field. For years, I've been skeptical. So, my goal in 2020 was to understand the field, learn about practically useful approaches, and grasp the state of the art.The more I read, however, the bigger became my scepticism. It's clear to me that the goals of this endeavor are fuzzy; the results are unconvincing; the practical value is low.All authors of IML papers say how important and exciting this research direction is. After reading the most cited sources, I haven't found anything exciting and no solid arguments for importance. I haven't found anything that works and proved usefulness. The biggest problem lies in an absence of a clear understanding of what interpretability means and what form an interpretation should take to be useful.If you looked for a recent review of the field, start with the below article on The Gradient.My position since the beginning of discussions on IML didn't change: I don't need to trust a model. I trust scientists who 1) used the scientific method to create that model and 2) published the approach, the data, and the source code.
The Indian Institute of Management, Bengaluru, India by BV Doshi, 1983.
Manning Publications Co. decided to publish a book with exact same title as that of my book. This is the first time I see this happening in AI books. The result will be nothing but confusion for the readers. Very disappointing move by a publisher I used to respect.
Am I the only one who doesn't have any Christmas feeling? Even Home Alone and Die Hard don't help.
Yingliang Stone Natural History Museum, Fujian, China by Atelier Alter Architects.
My book is #2 in the new list of must-read machine learning books:
Granada, Spain.
Talking to friends: I changed a lightbulb.Writing in one's resume: single-handedly managed a successful development and deployment of a new ambient lighting system with zero cost overruns and no security incidents.
Igloo hotels of Lapland, Finland.
Kunsthaus Graz, Austria.
Grund, Luxemburg.
When you work with big data, I think that the most important Linux command is nohup. If you didn't hear about it, it allows your code to keep running even after you close your terminal connection. The syntax is simple:$ nohup your command &The console output will be sent to the nohup.out file.
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers. In this issue: AI co-pilots US military aircraft for the first time, Facebook is developing a tool to summarize articles, 6 ways AI can help save the planet, a web app to generate template code for machine learning, four-bit computers are now all you need to train AI, and more.Subscribe to not miss future issues.#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
This week was poor on substantial AI news, mostly scandals that I don't consider AI news. Just like I don't consider AI news startup funding announcement, mergers, and acquisitions. The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter will be sent to the subscribers tomorrow and it will be the last issue in 2020. I had to dig deeper to collet 10 worthwhile links, hope you will enjoy them.
If this pandemic has proven something is that an employee in pajamas is as effective as an employee in a suit.
Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai.
Working with big data forces anyone to become a good programmer. It's one thing when because of your code inefficiency you wait for 1 minute instead of 1 second. It's an entirely different thing when you wait for 60 days instead of 24 hours.
One of the most important ML conferences, NeurIPS, this year used the so-called ethical review of submitted papers. Some papers might be rejected based on this ethical review.This is worrisome, to say the least. Scientific research must advance science, without regard to momentary social values. Giordano Bruno was burned to give us that. We must not screw up.
I marvel at human's ability to invent.
Happy Pythagorean Theorem Day!
National Museum of Qatar by Jean Nouvel (2019).
Hey LinkedIn, J. Danny Mendoza has left a legitimate comment under one of my posts. Many people liked it. Now it's hidden. Could you please explain which community policy does it violate?
Hundreds of people die every year because of Google Maps error. Only trust this app when you are surrounded by high population density. Never when you travel 50km or more from an inhabited locality or in extreme weather conditions.
Dalian International Conference Center, Dalian, China by Coop Himmelb(L)au.
Google search results for queries (exact match):"Google is toxic": 19 results"Facebook is toxic":  47 results"Reddit is toxic": 31 results "YouTube is toxic": 38 results"TikTok is toxic":  56 results"Instagram is toxic":  56 results"LinkedIn is toxic": 12 results"Snapchat is toxic": 17 results"Twitter is toxic": 353,000 results
Aquaduct Veluwemeer near Harderwijk, the Netherlands.
The Aspen Art Museum, Aspen, CO by the architect Shigeru Ban.
US Olympic and Paralympic Museum, Colorado Springs, CO by Diller Scofidio + Renfro.
Humao Museum of Art and Education, Ningbo, China by Álvaro Siza and Carlos Castanheira.
Many companies look for ways to attract talent. Some traditionally use perks and other bonuses, but, in very competitive markets, bonuses don't work that well anymore. Rare, well educated or gifted talent looks for more: flexible schedule, work from home or from abroad, a possibility of publishing, diversity, social or environmental responsibility of the employer, and more.However, even that is not enough as many companies now declare similar values. If you compete for rare talent and look for creative ideas to attract it, I have one for you.Freedom of speech.Promise your employees that you will fight for their right to speak freely. Both in the physical world and online. Promise that they will not be canceled after they post their opinion online, as long as what they post is not contrary to the law.Promise that what they say or post will not be tied to their position or role in the organization. Promise that what they say or post would remain their personal matter, as long as the law is respected.Promise the freedom of speech and fight for it and for your employees.It's bold. But if you do that, you will get the best talent. At this point, very few employers in the world have the courage to protect the freedom of speech of their employees. Become one of them.
RE•WORK asked the AI expert community what they think the prominent trends of 2021 could be. Very interesting predictions from people from MILA, Gartner, Facebook, Alexa AI, NASA, Mailchimp, and several others. I'm glad to be on this list.
Who can recommend good APIs that provide information about an organization given its name? The higher the coverage the better. Google Knowledge Graph seems to only cover what Wikipedia covers.
Where's the "Prove you are not a robot" prompt when it's so needed? :-)
Uber selling its self-driving business for half its last year's valuation is everything you need to know about the future of self-driving cars.
Markthal Rotterdam, the Netherlands by MVRDV Architects, 2014. The first covered market of the Netherlands, it includes a huge market floor on the ground floor under an arch of apartments.
Look for a great gift for Christmas or New Year for a colleague or friend? Why not an Amazon bestseller in Data Mining? :-)
Scientists working with the Inouye Solar Telescope at Haleakala Observatory on the Hawaiian island of Maui have made an incredibly detailed image of a sunspot.
New York Public Library, New York, NY.
Edinburgh, Scotland.
Roberto Clemente Bridge, Pittsburgh, PA.
Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, ON.
Several people asked me in private about my opinion on the situation with Google and its former employee, an AI ethics researcher, Dr. Timnit Gebru. I understand that the topic is delicate because Google leadership is accused by Dr. Gebru of censorship, racism, and sexism. I know that, in the light of recent events, this topic in America is much more sensitive than in other countries. Many of my followers and connections are Americans, so, to avoid hurting anyone's feelings, will not comment on this part of the story.What I will comment on is the second part: the use of large-scale language models (LLMs) in Google search. LLMs, such as BERT, according to Dr. Gebru (as it follows from her online remarks in my interpretation), are racist and sexist, and should not be used in Google search.In my opinion, an LLM trained on *open domain data* (and this is very important) is a Frankenstein. It's not an analogy, it really is a Frankenstein: each text is a representation of a part of one person's brain at some moment in time. An LLM picks such parts of the brains of a million people and puts them together to form an artificial brain. This artificial brain can generate new texts or make predictions based on its understanding of some input text.More in the comments.
I'm so excited to find out that one of my favorite YouTube bloggers, Giles McMullen, has just posted a video with his review of my first book.I highly recommend his channel for practical advice on various topics around programming and software development, including other awesome book recommendations.
Chongqing Zhongshuge Bookstore, Chongqing, China by X+Living.
The Parthenon, Nashville, TN.
Basic camera movements:
The new issue of the newsletter was just sent to the subscribers. In this issue: AlphaFold, the ImageNet moment for biology, scaling down deep learning, talking-head synthesis for video conferencing, challenges in deploying machine learning, computer-aided creativity, 5 things your company should know before investing in AI, and more.Subscribe to not miss future issues.#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
The Hallgrímskirkja church, Reykjavík, Iceland.
Linear regression visualized
Midtown, Manhattan, New York, NY.
Another World by Artem Chebokha, 2020.
Some professions cannot be remote yet
Marienplatz station, Munich, Germany.
My book is becoming a standard textbook for university-level machine learning courses. Last week, two more North-American universities purchased the hardcover edition of the book to sell it in their university textbook stores and for student libraries.If you are responsible for giving an ML, data science, or AI course, consider my book. As many readers testified, it has the highest coverage and great clarity for a book under 150 pages.
In case you wondered how AI startups are making money if they typically don't have their own unique dataset and their product is open-source. This is how.
Death by spaghettification: the telescopes of the European Southern Observatory record the last moments of a star devoured by a black hole.The team carried out observations of AT2019qiz over a 6–month period as the flare grew in luminosity and then faded away.
When I worked on my second book, I used the famous quote "Luke, I am your father" to illustrate one idea. The copyeditor, Aida, told me that this phrase was actually never used in the movie. The true phrase said by Darth Vader was "No, I am your father." I was sure I heard "Luke, I am your father in a movie I watched a hundred times, but Aida was right.Did you also think that "Luke, I am your father" was the quote from the movie? You are not alone. This is known as the Mandela Effect, and there are many other cases of this effect. For example, in Silence Of The Lambs, Hannibal Lecter never actually says "Hello, Clarice," though it's considered one of the movie's most iconic lines.If you think it's curious, in the below article you will find more.RIP David Prowse
Whale-watching museum in Andoya, Norway. Expected to open in 2022.
A multinational team wins Shenzhen Natural History Museum with this concept:
This week's AI newsletter issue was just sent to the subscribers. In this issue: top reasons why companies are still struggling to achieve ROI with AI, a neural network that learns when it should not be trusted, New York City wants to restrict artificial intelligence in hiring, an AI that sums up research papers in a sentence, a VS Code extension to quickly generate docstrings for Python using AI, and more.Subscribe to not miss future issues.#ai #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ml #deeplearning #datascience
Something positive
Probably we, at Gartner, have found a good compromise, but I actually prefer remote meetings: in Teams the quality is exceptional, you can quickly discuss an issue with a colleague while sharing the screen. The recording feature is awesome when you cannot be there.I think the problem is not the virtual meetings, but their quantity that some employers cannot keep reasonable. Also, everything has become virtual this year, so people seem to blame meetings even more than before.
Pfizer, November 9: "our vaccine is 90% effective."Russia, Gamalei, November 11: "our vaccine is 92% effective."Moderna, November 16: "our vaccine is 94.5% effective." Pfizer, again, November 18: "our vaccine is 95% effective."A typical flu vaccine is between 40% and 60% effective and it takes 5-10 years to develop. Do you think that something is fishy? Here is a couple of facts:"Industry-funded trials reported positive outcomes in 85.4% of publications, compared with 50.0% for government-funded trials and 71.9% for nonprofit or nonfederal organization-funded trials (P < 0.001)."https://lnkd.in/gSX53Ja"The percentage of studies sponsored by drug companies increased from 25% in 1992 to 57% in 2002. Favorable outcomes were significantly more common in studies sponsored by the drug manufacturer (78%) than in studies without industry sponsorship (48%) or sponsored by a competitor (28%)."https://lnkd.in/gHJgzKF"Studies sponsored by pharmaceutical companies were more likely to have outcomes favouring the sponsor than were studies with other sponsors (odds ratio 4.05; 95% confidence interval 2.98 to 5.51; 18 comparisons)."https://lnkd.in/gScZZrw
King’s College Chapel, Cambridge, England.
So, after I realized that PySpark wouldn't solve my very simple problem: let me apply a Python library I like to a Parquet file I have, I decided to try other state-of-the-art distributed data processing libraries: Dask, Vaex, and Ray.People told me that with any of those I will have no problem at all.Result: all three failed.The problem is the same for all three just as it is for PySpark: the Python library that I want to apply to my dataframe must be pickleable. Otherwise, you can forget about parallelism.So, my sad conclusion: the distributed processing libraries are good only in two situations: 1) you give up on Python and use a programming language without GIL or 2) you stick to Python and use only built-in capabilities of those data processing frameworks: join, groupby, filter, a subset of numpy operations, and some basic string processing. So, basically, forget about advanced text and image processing. I couldn't believe that this is what the SOTA for Python in 2020 is, but it's hard to argue with test results.
What Gartner has to do with machine learning?Quebec City's office of Gartner is unique. We have a team whose core competency is the automated processing of big data. And we have been doing this for 17 years. Way before the term "big data" was first used to describe what we do.Our Apache Storm-based system on AWS continuously processes hundreds of millions of job postings per week from all over the world, across languages, countries, and industries.We build fast and accurate machine learning-based extractors for salaries, skills, certifications, education levels, and other properties of a job. We predict the occupation code, industry, difficulty to hire, and average hiring period.We model salaries for job descriptions that don't have them in the text, we normalize locations, job titles, and company names. All that in 16 languages, 23 countries, in real-time.We hire.
Central Park, New York, NY.
YORK House concept by Alex Nerovnya, 2019.
St. Gertrude Old Church, Riga, Latvia.
Don't tell me it's not work-related.
I’m #hiring for a data scientist/machine learning developer position at Gartner in Quebec City. A possibility of working remotely from neighboring locations including Montréal, Sherbrooke, and Trois-Rivières.We have about 5 billion text documents in 15 languages to analyze. Google TalentNeuron to know more about our product.#machinelearning
As you probably know, I'm disappointed with Spark. I look for a simple distributed computing library for Python that would take full advantage of one big multicore machine. Ideally, I would like it to 1) be easily installable in a virtual machine or a container, 2) be able to detect available CPU cores/RAM and adapt, 3) take a parquet or CSV from S3 as input, 4) apply a sequence of user-defined functions to each record in columns I would specify, and 5) save the result to S3. All in the RAM of one machine or container.Very important: it must work with ALL Python packages I'm able to install on the machine.Any ideas? Would Dask do that? Also, what about Ray? Anything better?
A short reminder about the world we live in. In this photo, CEOs of seven major U.S. tobacco corporations declare under oath that nicotine is not addictive, 1994.
Three facts:1. A large fraction of companies have migrated their business to the cloud -> A modern IDE must support remote code execution.2. VS Code for Python is free and does support remote code execution -> VS Code is a modern IDE for Python.3. PyCharm Community Edition is free and doesn't support remote code execution.Make your conclusions.
A milestone for my first book: 500 ratings on Amazon. Most technical books never reach 50 ratings.
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers. In this issue: first AI-powered news anchor, software engineering for AI, how to tell the difference between AI and BS, machine learning games are the future, artificial intelligence and the future of aesthetics, preprocessing for deep learning, and more.Subscribe to received future issues in your email inbox.#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning #datascience
A very detailed review of my book by Steven Finkelstein, @DataGeneralist.
Too bad Senators don't understand anything in tech. The issue of too much power and too little control in social media can be easily fixed if their algorithms were, by law, open-source with all changes observable by the public.
ML Bit #9 Deep double descent: a larger model overfits; a very large model fits even better.You still aren't subscribed to ML Bits on Тwittеr? You miss a lot of stuff.
Happy and honored to be one of this year's LinkedIn Top Voices in Data Science & AI. It's especially flattering when you look at the company: Andrew Ng, Cassie Kozyrkov, Allie K. Miller to name a few.
It was brought to my attention that Daniel Bourke has made a video with the title "I've got a new favourite machine learning book." Guess which book is it? ;-)
Lots of things in Spark remain manual while they shouldn't. The biggest WTF for me that the developer must think about how to partition the data before the crunching begins and after basically each operation of filter/group by. Why doesn't Spark think about things like that? I understand that some use cases can be very specific, but for most of us, we just want to run some UDFs applied to each row of the dataframe and then do some averaging/grouping.Basically, all Spark tutorials will tell you that before you start crunching you should repartition the data according to the following rule of thumb: num_paritions = num_executors x num_CPU_cores_per_executor x 3. If it's so, why doesn't Spark do that when it can help? If it doesn't help, then why all tutorials say that it does?Programming for Spark is like low-level programming when you have to care about garbage collection yourself after basically each operation. Would you like to do that manually in 2020? I don't think so. Why does Spark what you to do that?I have one hypothesis. Some big data consulting companies have a significant influence on the Spark development. They want Spark to remain low-level and manual and don't want it to work well out of the box for the vast majority of use cases.
Latitudes and longitudes with equal population:
Morse code decoder chart
Capsule Hotel and Bookstore, Qinglongwu Village, Zhejiang province, China by Atelier tao+c.
Reading Room in Sainte-Geneviève Library, Paris, France.
Meskimen's Law of Time: There is never enough time to do it right, but there is always enough time to do it over.
The ampersand character is, actually, letters "e" and "t" concatenated. "Et" in Latin (and in modern French) means "and."
Sagrada Familia, Barcelona, Catalonia.
Ibsen Library, Skien, Norway by Kengo Kuma.
Julien Beaulieu has created a Comprehensive Project-Based Data Science Curriculum. The curriculum offers a mix of best in class resources and a suggested path to complete them in order to become a data scientist.It is intended to be a complete education in data science using online materials and is an alternative to getting a Master's degree. The proposed curriculum assumes no prior knowledge of data science, programming, and only assumes knowledge of basic high school math. For this reason, it is intended for anyone who is currently in a completely unrelated field that wants to fully transition careers and get hired as a data scientist.
ML Bit #5 To simplify and accelerate manual labeling, train the first model early, then use the model to recommend labels to the human. Retrain the model periodically to improve label recommendations.Follow the daily ML Bits on Twitter. The link is in the comments.
Never thought it would help students to be more engaged, but it seems like when a teacher is walking through the classroom and a robotic camera follows the teacher, remote students feel more like in an actual class. Also, some students appreciate the possibility to control the camera and be able to "look around."Overall, the progress of telepresence tech during this year is impressive. I really enjoy Teams meetings with colleagues: the resolution is high, the sound is clear, and no lagging. The experience was never that smooth as it is today. Can't wait to see what else will become possible.
After some investigation, it seems that this "neural engine" that comes with the new Macbook Pro doesn't accelerate the training of neural networks, but only accelerates inference. With the limit of 16GB RAM, I don't think that I would switch from my Intel i9 Macbook Pro with 32 GB RAM.
The Turkish edition of my book was just published and is now available in all leading bookstores. It's the result of the hard work of the translators Tamer Karatekin, Prof. Dr. Ing. Ali Okatan, and his son, Kağan OKATAN, Ph.D. Thanks to the three of you and to the publishing house Papatya Bilim.Not many Western technical and scientific books find their way to the Turkish reader. I'm happy to be the author of one of those rare books.
This week's newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You will find the link in the comments. In this issue: generating coherent speech and gesture from text, adapting on the fly to test time distribution shift, the hidden threat of deep learning, machine learning for code debugging, language model is all you need, how to make AI work for your business, and more.Share it with your colleagues and subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox once a week.#machinelearning #ai #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
There's one thing I cannot get about employers. How someone cannot realize that parents need support? And that they especially need it when working from home during a pandemic?Yes, it's OK that a parent has a child to care about while talking about business with colleagues or clients.Yes, it's OK that a parent has to leave a meeting earlier and go to school, a kindergarten, or a clinic.Yes, it's OK that a parent needs a day off.If it's not OK for *you,* then pay for a nanny, and a cook, and a driver. Don't want to pay? Blame yourself, not the parent.Being a parent is not a caprice. It's the foundation of humanity. Respecting that is the least an employer can do.
This week's newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: generating coherent speech and gesture from text, adapting on the fly to test time distribution shift, the hidden threat of deep learning, machine learning for code debugging, language model is all you need, how to make AI work for your business, and more.Share it with your colleagues and subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox once a week.#machinelearning #ai #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
The new Macbook Pro 2020 comes with what Apple calls a "neural engine," a dedicated neural network hardware accelerating machine learning tasks. Now I want a new Mac even more!
Great news! Despite hard times, I have an opening for a Data Scientist / ML Developer in my team. Please find the requirements in the attached PDF. The position can be remote if physically close to Quebec City, Canada. It includes Montreal, Sherbrooke, Trois-Rivieres, or desire to move there or to Quebec City.The data: about 5 billion online job postings in 15 languages. Access to GPU-equipped machines and distributed computing clusters.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #datascience #jobannouncement
I created a new Twitter account @ml_bits where I will post daily bits of knowledge and practical advice on machine learning. Subscribe!
Published in 11 languages and endorsed by the leaders in the field, both in academia and industry, this my book is the fastest way to get into AI. Like all my books, distributed on the "read-first, buy-later" principle.#ai #machinelearning
The Beaux-Arts Labrouste Room inside the Richelieu-Louvois annex of the Bibliothèque nationale de France, Paris, France.
Chicago, IL
According to Kaggle, Vowpal Wabbit (VW) is one of the most wide-spread machine learning libraries in the industry. I personally only heard of this library in the Kaggle competitions context. Do you work with this library in the industry? What is your use case and why VW?
In my new book, the entire machine learning project lifecycle, from data collection to putting the model in production, is thoroughly described. From this book, you will learn the best practices and design patterns of modern machine learning. As usual, it's a "read-first, buy-later" book.
This week's newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! You will find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: AI camera mistakes a referee's bald head for the ball and ruins the game, an AI model detects Covid-19 infections through cellphone-recorded coughs, competing in the age of AI, doctor GPT-3: hype or reality?, a model 7.9x faster and 6.3x smaller than BERT, and more.Share it with your colleagues and subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox once a week.#machinelearning #ai #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
This week's newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: AI camera mistakes a referee's bald head for the ball and ruins the game, an AI model detects Covid-19 infections through cellphone-recorded coughs, competing in the age of AI, doctor GPT-3: hype or reality?, a model 7.9x faster and 6.3x smaller than BERT, and more.Share it with your colleagues and subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox once a week.#machinelearning #ai #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
An 18th-century church in Kizhi Island, Russia. Made entirely of interlocking wood pieces and no nails.
PySpark, a python API for Spark, sucks. Trying to deliver python dependencies to the cluster is hell. Some of them work, some don't work, you have no idea why. The only way to dynamically deliver dependencies to a cluster is to zip them and either pass the zip as a --py-files argument when you run the job or as the argument of the sparkContex.addPyFile() method within the Python code.In both cases, the effect is the same: some dependencies work and some don't. What's the most annoying, Pandas is an integral part of PySpark API. For example, a dataframe in PySpark has a method df.toPandas(). So, how about that: this API doesn't work unless you import Pandas. But you cannot import Pandas if you don't deliver it to the cluster. And you cannot deliver it within a zip file because it's one of those python dependencies that don't work when delivered inside a zip file.I thought I would love Spark but I hate Spark because of PySpark. They would rather not build PySpark. It doesn't attract developers. It turns them off.
Dear journalists, could you stop saying "godfather of AI" please? You have no idea how stupid you sound.
So, about a year ago, Google proposed me to get verified. They asked to send my selfie photo as well as a photo of any government-issued ID. I have sent them that. After almost a year-long review, they rejected the verification and requested for one more selfie and one more photo of a government-issued ID.Very funny, Google, but nope.By the way, I have my Gmail account since its release in 2004. It's so full, that I pay a monthly fee for an extra space. What other proof that me it's me they might need?
Found this one in my mailbox yesterday! After a couple of chapters, it's a very interesting read on how intelligent technologies will shape the future of work and our society. Great work, Pascal BORNET!
You probably wondered what happened to my new book that Amazon put on hold because it was created using LaTeX? Here's what happened during the last two weeks.I requested an investigation and they took one week to do that. After one week of "investigation," they just told me that the PDF is not good for printing. So, one week was just lost. I bought Adobe Acrobat Pro and processed the PDF there, by flattening all transparencies and saving the PDF for printing. So, there was nothing else to do. I updated the PDF on the KDP website and requested to remove the hold. Nothing happened.Then I remembered that some of you advised writing to Jeff Bezos. It was my last resort and I did that.Two days later, I was called by a member of the Executive Customer Support on behalf of Jeff Bezos. I explained my situation once again over the phone. I was promised that the solution will be found. Three days later the hold was just removed. So the paperback book is now available, again!***I told you that it wasn't Amazon's position. Someone blatantly incompetent working in the printing department was identified and disarmed. Too bad that to achieve that, I had to lose three weeks of sales and reach out to the CEO.What's next: I will work to make sure that Amazon starts accepting LaTeX.
Westin Bonaventure Hotel interior, downtown Los Angeles, CA. Designed by John Portman.
Did you know that no one yet measured the speed of light in one direction?
Maya Somaiya Library, Maharashtra, India by Sameep Padora & Associates.
Vancouver, BC.
"Cognition: the mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses." - Oxford LanguagesWhen I see that an organization rebrands machine learning as "cognitive technologies," I'm starting to itch. Do you people have no shame?
The translator of the Chinese edition of my first book, Ray J. Han, with both my books in front of the Marina Bay Sands, Singapore. Thank you for this shot, Ray! Hopefully, we will produce a Chinese edition for the new book too.
This week's newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! You will find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: five famous analytics and AI disasters, AI outperforms humans in speech recognition, dynamic sky replacement and harmonization in videos, the best-kept secret about OpenAI’s GPT-3, translating lost languages using machine learning, a curated collection of machine learning used in art, and more.Share it with your colleagues and subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox once a week.#machinelearning #ai #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
This week's newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! In this issue: five famous analytics and AI disasters, AI outperforms humans in speech recognition, dynamic sky replacement and harmonization in videos, the best-kept secret about OpenAI’s GPT-3, translating lost languages using machine learning, a curated collection of machine learning used in art, and more.Share it with your colleagues and subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox once a week.#machinelearning #ai #artificialintelligence #ml #deeplearning
Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore, Florence, Italy.
Spark is a popular distributed cluster-computing framework. It is written in Scala. Spark has APIs for many other languages. For example, PySpark is a popular API for Python. To the question of whether one should know more than one programming language. I argue that yes.Even if PySpark lets you use Python to write Spark data processing jobs, you will not have the same capabilities as if you used native Scala or even another JVM language. Everything will be fine until it's not. Error messages in PySpark are obscure. Often, they only tell you that something is broken but don't tell what.All Scala dependencies will work with Spark, but not all Python dependencies. You will never know that some Python dependency is not compatible with Spark until you get an obscure error that "something in your code is broken." One frequent issue is that all Python objects must be pickable to work with Spark. If some part of your Python object was implemented in C++ and it is not pickable, Spark will not work with that object. If you want to continue with Python, you will have to re-implement those objects yourself or be lucky enough to find a similar pickable implementation.Because most distributed computing happens in a JVM, I recommend learning at least one JVM language.
Advice to job seekers. In your resume:1) 1 page = 10 years;2) spoken languages: a must (unless you live in the default country);3) nothing in *bold* but your name and section titles;4) no ellipses (like in "Expert in cars, computers, bridges, ...");5) no misspellings;6) no special characters, no images;7) not a Word file.A LinkedIn profile with more details is a must.
Zhongshuge bookstore in Chengdu, China.
What's a radian?
Lake Bled, Slovenia.
Lists like "100 best books on the topic X" or "200 links to the best tutorials on the topic Y" are useless. No one will read 100 books or follow 200 tutorials. People need 2 best books and 1 best tutorial on each topic. You can only provide 100? You would better not.
Tuscany, Italy.
Simon and Newell, 1958: "Within ten years, a digital computer will be the world’s chess champion."Simon, 1965: "Machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do."Minsky, 1967: "Within a generation … the problem of creating artificial intelligence will substantially be solved."
Counterfeit is a very serious problem on Amazon. My book is a  constant victim of counterfeit. I try hard to make them removed, but they always come back. And they are very creative! For example, I managed to ban them from selling my book as new, but they found a way to sell it as "used in a good state." To make it look like a used book, they even pay someone to highlight random paragraphs with a lead pencil so that it's hard to say that it's a new fake rather than a used book! Creative? Hell yeah!What's worse, they use the Fulfilled by Amazon program to sell their counterfeit. So, basically, Amazon distributes fake for criminals and even puts its brand on each such sale.Be careful when you shop online!
Because Moore's law doesn't work anymore, the only way for computing to become more powerful is for the programmers to learn to program. Yes, it will be hard, but in the 80s, programmers were capable of programming, so we will be capable too.
Don't blame lazy people, they didn't do anything!
Always warn the user!
It's crazy how fast the progress in machine learning happens. Things that we tried and they didn't work 2 years ago, we can almost easily solve today.Normally, when something is impossible, it takes 5-10 years, sometimes decades, before it becomes not just possible but also accessible to typical organizations.Today, when something doesn't work as expected, we just say: ok, let's wait several months to a year, something better will likely appear.
My first book reached a milestone of 500 ratings on Goodreads.com!
Château de Versailles, Paris, France.
Excellent visualization of the distortions of different map projections. Play with it yourself: https://lnkd.in/g-XCqw3
Wisdom from Reddit. Business leaders and startup founders: read that once, read that twice, read that as many times as it takes to start believing.
Vertical parking, Chicago, IL, 1936. (And a video in the comments.)
Since I have kids, and during the last 8 months I didn't leave the house other than to do groceries and walk, I can officially say that I'm a stay-at-home dad.
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: how machine learning improves Google search, first many to many machine translation system (with code), learning with practically no data, detecting deepfakes with 80% accuracy, image-captioning AI better than human, machine-learning-based fast COVID-19 test, and more.Subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox.#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #datascience #deeplearning
I was about to joke that when nobody buys your phones on Earth, Moon is what's left. But then I went to read about Nokia on Wikipedia and was really impressed. Despite the painful loss of the mobile business, Nokia still employs some 100,000 people across 100 countries and feels strong in the telecommunication equipment business.Did you know that Nokia started in 1865 as a pulp mill? An incredible ability to adapt and survive!
One of the most frequently heard arguments against the need of knowing how machine learning algorithms work to be able to use them is that you don't need to know how a car works to drive it.I heard that argument so many times that I believe it merits a post. No, this analogy is absolutely wrong. But if you want, I will use it. So, in the data science world, you leave the house and, instead of the road that you saw yesterday, today it's a river. So you have to remove tires and seal all cracks. You also must put sails and paddles. During your travel to the office, you might realize that with that speed you will only reach the destination tomorrow. So you decide that you need wings and a propeller, while the engine must be upgraded.Once in the office, you might realize that you cannot work at your desk, because it's not a desk anymore, it's a trampoline. So, to be able to work, you must either do it by jumping or learn to use the desk during the short moments when it's at your level.When you are ready to head back home, you realize that you are on Mars now. So you must construct a rocket out of everything you have in your lunchbox.
The antitrust claims to Google are hard to understand to anyone who has a brain. The fact that most people use Chrome is not the result of Google's dominant position as a search company. People deliberately install it *after* they get the default Edge or Safari. This is not how a monopoly works.Then, yes, Google uses Chrome to promote Google's services. And this is exactly how any normal business operates. I do promote my second book in my first book. What's wrong with that?
Happy to be on the list!
Are you on a journey to become a pro-level business analyst? Then we have a treat for you!Abhiraj Suresh has curated a list of 8 business analytics books to get you started! These books range from Excel, tableau, Statistics, Python, storytelling and much more! Happy Learning!
A paradox of life: you are in the best position to ask something when you need that the least. Your chances of getting something are higher when you don't need anything. You are the best paid when you don't need money. You are the most capable when you care the least.
Wow! What a nice tool. You can design and train your neural network in the browser using a simple UI: https://lnkd.in/gmYMeZX
An interesting Data Science riddle competition and an awesome prize ;-)
Data Science Riddle COMPETITION - October 2020 There are two main reasons that I started the Data Science Riddles - to entertain and to teach. Being old-school, I still think that one of the best ways to learn is via books. So, to the first person who solves this riddle, and identifies ALL the clues correctly, by midnight 31 October AEDT, I'll send you a copy of Andriy Burkov's famous 'The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book' (unless you already have a copy, or are Andriy, in which case I'll send you another book!). I'll reveal the winner and solution on Monday November 2 AEDT. Good luck and have fun :-) A calls B,But in error dials C,Who just wants to learn,What the others can't see. #datascienceriddles #datascience #datascienceeducation #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #data #analytics #dataanalytics
Since I published my second book, I decided to take a pause in writing and become a reader again to catch up on new cool stuff in computer science. To say that I'm disappointed with the quality of modern technical books is to say nothing at all.The impression I have is that books are written in a hurry with two goals 1) to be first to publish with that title and 2) make quick money. What's especially disappointing, is that I used to have several trusted publishers that used to produce quality publications. Now they cannot be trusted either.Most books I read (or, rather couldn't continue reading) followed the schema that seems to be "from blog to print." These cannot be called books.Twenty years ago, those "authors" wouldn't be taken seriously by neither publishers nor readers. Today, half-baked products of this kind seem to be a norm.What's especially wrong that some books receive endorsements from reputable scholars and industry leaders. I'm not sure they actually read those books.I cannot name books and those authors due to a possible conflict of interest. But I really-really want to fix that. But how?
Among the technical books you read, which one had the most beautiful illustrations?
Why do most open-source projects fail? They didn't have a good product manager. Yes, open-source technologies are products, even if they are free to use.Even when the very best software engineering team works on an open-source project, it will fail, unless, by accident, one of the engineers is also a good product manager.When you start an open-source project, think about finding a talented product manager and make them as an important team member as an engineer, in what concerns technical decision making.
2020 can be officially called the year of offended. You can say anything and someone would get offended. And not just offended, but they will tell you that they are offended and they will bring an army of supporters.For example, say "Good day!" and you will likely hear, "It's good for you! Some people are suffering!" Or, they will say that you imply that that the night is not good? What about all those people who work at night or underground? What about blind people?Or, you can say that you love your job, and they will tell you that so many people have lost their jobs, so you would better keep it for yourself.And forget about jokes. In 2020, you can only joke about rocks. Rocks don't get offended. Wait. Someone lost a relative because of a rock that fell from the roof. No, better don't joke about rocks. In fact, just don't say anything at all.Now you are a nice person.
Because I learned machine learning before deep learning, I learned the regularization technique under the name of L2 regularization. Was surprised to find out only recently that in deep learning literature they often call the technique "weight decay."So now it has three names: L2 regularization, ridge regularization, and weight decay. All that honor to a simple sum of squares.
The owner of one general-purpose social network has got too much power, and in 2020, he started to abuse it. Never thought I would tell that in my life, but social networks must be regulated.
In AI, if we draw parallels with the traditional software development, data is your code, the model is your binary, and the machine learning algorithm "compiles" the code into a binary, that is, it converts your data into a model.As a consequence, deal with your data as you deal with your code in the traditional software development: version it, test it, optimize it, retire it.Then, when AI behaves "unethically" or plain wrong, it's not AI's fault, it's your fault. To blame AI is the same as to blame an executable binary instead of the programmer.
Espaces d’Abraxas, Paris, France, a residential building by Ricardo Bofill, 1983.
The comparison of the US President and UK Prime Minister motorcades. What a waste of resources, don't you find?
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! You will find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: a curated list to track current scary usages of AI, who is responsible when autonomous systems fail, what businesses need to know about model explainability, turning any CNN image classifier into an object detector, how machine learning finally reached the enterprise, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
A typical newbie after taking a crash course on Python:
Vladislav Hall, Prague, Czechia.
What a nice review of my book!"Discover one of the best Machine Learning books; simple, short, concise, and elegant: The Hundred-Page Machine Learning book."
LinkedIn's newsletter system is broken. A large fraction of subscribers don't receive my AI newsletter anymore. Today's issue wasn't emailed at all. If you work at LinkedIn, or people in your network do, could you please help escalate this issue? The issue case ID is 201003-004032.
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: a curated list to track current scary usages of AI, who is responsible when autonomous systems fail, what businesses need to know about model explainability, turning any CNN image classifier into an object detector, how machine learning finally reached the enterprise, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
Most algorithms and models in machine learning are singular: logistic regression, neural network, and even k-nearest neighbors is singular as in "k-nearest neighbors search". However, there are support vectors machine*s* and random forest*s*. Who decided that they should be plural and why? How they are supposed to be mentioned in a text?"Support vector machines are a model that...""Random forests are an ensemble learning method..."🤷
Unexpected automation.
Never could understand when, to teach machine learning "simply," the teacher creates their own ML framework. OK, the students will learn to use your homebrew tool. Then, in the job market, that knowledge will worth nothing.As for me, it's just as bad as to teach programming using an artificial pseudocode language instead of Python or Ruby.
Don't you find it strange that new programming languages always appear, but SQL remains the only structured data querying language? Is it because it was perfect from the beginning?
Les Haras Brasserie restaurant, Strasbourg, France. Design by Studio Manku, built in 2013.
What to learn in 2020 to become a machine learning engineer:1. Python2. Data structures3. ML algorithms4. ML best practices5. (No)SQL6. Version control/Git7. REST API/Flask8. Virtualization/Docker/Kubernetes9. Distributed computing/Spark/Dask10. Workflow management/Airflow/Kubeflow11. Unit tests/integration tests
Chrome has become a new IE. Firefox has lost the battle. Safari is only on the chart because of the iPhone.
Support my book on Hacker News by upvoting this post:
Ah, THAT is why!
The Best Machine Learning Books to Read in 2020. Guess what book is number one on the list?
Looks like a preparation for the final battle for IBM.
The top three Amazon bestsellers in the Data Mining category right now:
"The Computer Girls," was a 1967 Cosmopolitan piece about a strange new field dominated by women. It was called programming:
The Dakota apartment building, Upper West Side, Manhattan, New York City, NY.
As you have seen in my earlier post today, in 2020, PyTorch has become the framework of choice for new projects on Github. It's also recommended by many experts as the deep learning framework to learn if it's the first one for you. What's your opinion on what would be more beneficial for society: to keep two competing frameworks (TF and PyTorch) or to put all available open-source and educational resources on one framework? The latter happened, for example, for shallow learning algorithms and scikit-learn.
Is it just me of when you search for machine learning engineering on Google, my book's website comes first?
5Mb of data on 62,500 punched cards, 1955, USA.The computer program is The Semi-Automatic Ground Environment (SAGE). SAGE was a system of large computers and associated networking equipment that coordinated data from many radar sites and processed it to produce a single unified image of the airspace over a wide area. SAGE directed and controlled the NORAD response to a Soviet air attack, operating in this role from the late 1950s into the 1980s: https://lnkd.in/e95s-76
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! You can find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: Elon Musk’s Neuralink: what’s science and what’s not, GANs for videoconferencing, a paper explained, Python code implementing ML algorithms from scratch, AlphaGo the movie, countries with the highest density of robot workers, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
Why does everybody keep telling that Excel is not a database? Put an Excel file to the Dropbox folder and access it via Pandas. Now you have a database with resiliency and a Python API. Oh, and don't tell me that Excel is not a machine learning platform, because: https://lnkd.in/gp9aXsv
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: Elon Musk’s Neuralink: what’s science and what’s not, GANs for videoconferencing, a paper explained, Python code implementing ML algorithms from scratch, AlphaGo the movie, countries with the highest density of robot workers, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
I'll just put it here.
Your help needed. If you are subscribed to my AI newsletter here, on LinkedIn, could you please check if you *didn't* receive one or several recent issues in your email inbox? If yes, *please leave a comment* with the # of the issue you didn't receive. The most recent issue is #37.
Three AI bestsellers on Amazon right now:
Yesterday in Quebec City, QC.
Kirill Eremenko and his team have just launched a new course - Python for Financial Analysis. The course was designed for people who would like to make the first steps in a data science career but have no financial sources for that, as well as for professionals who want to expand their knowledge. The course is entirely free of charge and it is already open to all interested individuals:
Le Marisho, Marseille, France.
I'm sorry folks but claiming to be able to teach machine learning without using *any* math equation and without *at least* explaining the notion of a function and its first-order derivative it's like claiming that you can teach architecture by dancing. You can make some bucks for sure, but what about those thousands of people who, "thanks" to your book or course, now think they know machine learning while they don't?
Most modern technical books have the title of the form: "X with Y for Z." So boring.
One of the best short talks on what's an AI, its limitations, and how to deal with them:
Machine learning in the cloud sucks. You can buy a physical machine with 4 modern GPUs for ~ $15k while if you run a similar charge 24/7 in the cloud, you would pay ~$100k/year. That's beyond reasonable.
Cool Python 3 features:name = "Fred"text = f"He said his name is {name}."...if (n := len(a)) > 10:....print(f"List is too long ({n} elements, expected <= 10)")...x = 1_000_000_000_000_000...>>> from enum import Enum, auto>>> class Color(Enum):...     red = auto()...     blue = auto()...     green = auto()...>>> list(Color)[<Color.red: 1>, <Color.blue: 2>, <Color.green: 3>]...def greeting(name: str) -> str:....return 'Hello ' + name...with open("data.txt") as f:....data = f.read()...What are your favorite Python 3 features?
Hehe. Why would it be?
"Slightly supervised learning" is when you use clustering to group unlabeled examples in an unsupervised way and then you ask a human to only assign labels to clusters. Then your model predicts a label by finding the label of the closest cluster centroid to an input example. An awesome thing! The best ratio time-to-utility.UPD: there is a name for that: https://lnkd.in/gG_HTG7
If you ordered the paperback edition of the Machine Learning Engineering book but Amazon canceled your order, or if you could not order the book in your country, there’s good news: the paperback edition is back on Amazon and you can now order it.The problem was caused by an internal policy of Amazon to not accept for publishing PDF files generated using the LaTeX system. So, even if the book was already sold hundreds of times and didn’t contain any visible problem, Amazon has put it on hold and requested me to generate the PDF of the book using different software, which I did. I apologize for the inconvenience caused.The book can be bought on Leanpub as a PDF file and on Amazon as a paperback, hardcover, and Kindle. Here are links to some local Amazon websites:US: https://lnkd.in/gwYk99YCanada: https://lnkd.in/gwXetgiUK: https://lnkd.in/g53h64gGermany: https://lnkd.in/g8R-ZahFrance: https://lnkd.in/gMP6d8vItaly: https://lnkd.in/gY9WBbiSpain: https://lnkd.in/gMDeiG8Enjoy your weekend!
True :-)
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was sent to the subscribers. If you missed it, the link could be found in the comments to this post. In this issue: AI restores old photos with damages, robot beats humans at curling, deep learning for software engineering, BERT performance with 400 times fewer parameters, why devs shouldn’t use the internet to train AI, how AI is used in data center physical security today, eBay CTO on artificial intelligence in the enterprise, and more.Subscribe to not miss future issues.
Moving the hard drive for the IBM 305 RAMAC computer, 1956. The volume of the drive: 5 megabytes.
You remember that Amazon unpublished my new book in the paperback format? They didn't tell me the reason for about 10 days. Now you know what the reason was? The PDF of the book was generated using LaTeX. Yes, they say that LaTeX is not good for book publishing. They want me to generate the PDF "using a different PDF producer." Apparently, it doesn't matter what that different PDF producer would be as long as it's not LaTeX.LaTeX is the primary technology used in scientific and technical books. Thousands of books are prepared and released using LaTeX every year. It's a defacto standard for just *any* scientific publication in computer science and in science in general. Amazon says that LaTeX is not good for publishing.I'm sure that this could not be a deliberate policy of the company. Probably an incompetent person has got a high post in the printing division. Organizations, beware of incompetent people. Especially, do not promote incompetent people. Militant incompetence in corporate leadership is the path to failure for any business, and we know dozens of examples of when that happened.
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: AI restores old photos with damages, robot beats humans at curling, deep learning for software engineering, BERT performance with 400 times fewer parameters, why devs shouldn’t use the internet to train AI, how AI is used in data center physical security today, eBay CTO on artificial intelligence in the enterprise, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
A series of paths created by 800 unmanned bicycles being pushed until they fall over:
My Machine Learning Engineering book is one of the three!
Burj Khalifa, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
"Every time I fire a linguist, the performance of our speech recognition system goes up." — Fred Jelinek, 1988.
If you had troubles ordering my new book in the paperback format this week, Amazon didn't let you place an order or canceled it, try these links:US: https://lnkd.in/gshNYFGCanada: https://lnkd.in/gqugjn3Germany: https://lnkd.in/g3bAR7XFrance: https://lnkd.in/gMmQMnkItaly: https://lnkd.in/g6rZpuMUK: https://lnkd.in/gFVAgxkSpain: https://lnkd.in/gbWuWWsJapan: https://lnkd.in/gAj8gtTThe price might be higher than last week. This is because this is Premium quality, while before it was Standard quality which is about $15 less expensive in print.One week ago, Amazon unpublished the Standard quality paperback edition because of a technical problem. I still don't know what exactly the problem is and when they expect to get it fixed. They don't tell me. Sorry for the inconvenience!
Nikola Tesla in his lab, the 1900s, USA.
Library of Congress, Washington, DC.
Three days ago, Amazon has unpublished the paperback edition of my book without explanation. I called them and sent several emails, with no success. The answer was: "we investigate" and then silence. Three days later, I don't even know what's the reason.If you tried to make an order of the paperback and saw "Out of Print--Limited Availability." message, it's that problem. Currently, the remaining options are Kindle and Leanpub. You can also try to order a hardcover, though its availability varies depending on your location.The problem seems to mostly concern the North American Amazon (Amazon.com), so if you are in Europe, you might be luckier. Try to search for the title "Machine Learning Engineering" and you will probably find a working link. Let me know if it worked for you and in which country.I'm sorry about that and I'm doing my best to get the paperback back.
IT: so, we need a software developer, a database administrator, a network administrator, an integration engineer, and a tester. This will cost us $500k a year.Finance: let's call it DevOps and require all that from one person for 100k!
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! You can find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: after years of hype, many people feel AI has failed to deliver, how businesses can be competitive with AI, why Amazon warehouses and Tesla auto plants will not go 100% robot any time soon, GPT-3 economy, The Hardware Lottery, how hackers could fool AI, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
Once again, Spencer pays 20 coupons for students to get my new book for $10 a copy! If you are a student you need a coupon, just comment under Spencer's post!
roll-up, roll-up, get your discount here : Machine Learning ENGINEERING …Andriy Burkov has done it again.We know its tough as a student having to find the cash to spend on extra books like this, so we are sponsoring 20 copies for students; it will only cost you $10 for the digital versionSimply reply to this post and I’ll send you a discount code/link  --- this offer is strictly for studentsA massive thanks to Andriy for working with us in order to make this happenThis really is going to be a ‘classic’ book, get your hands and minds on it asap.#machinelearning #innovation #technology #softwareengineering #aiforgood #globalassociates #future #smartbuildings
A new issue of my weekly AI newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: after years of hype, many people feel AI has failed to deliver, how businesses can be competitive with AI, why Amazon warehouses and Tesla auto plants will not go 100% robot any time soon, GPT-3 economy, The Hardware Lottery, how hackers could fool AI, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
The Philological Library, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.
Find all bugs.
Corvin Castle, Hunedoara, Romania.
OpenAI seriously calls their neural networks like GPT-3 "pre-AGI technologies." If Boeing and Airbus were as pretentious as OpenAI, they would call their planes "pre-teleportation technologies," while phone-makers would call their devices "pre-telepathy technologies." Some companies really don't know when to stop.
Year 2020. Microsoft Excel still unable to open a CSV file encoded with UTF-8.
If you still believe in the (false) promises of some car manufacturers that level-5-autonomy self-driving cars (fully autonomous, no driver needed) will soon be delivered, we just need to gather more data, well, the problem is not about data. It's about humans.Imagine you are an AI that controls a car. You are at an intersection where there's a guy holding a stop sign but motioning for you to proceed. Wouldn't you fail? I bet you would.Still, think you wouldn't fail? Now, imagine the same scenario but the guy is making eye contact with the driver in the lane next to you. Sorry, dear AI, eye contacts are for humans only.
Orust, Sweden.
This glasses advertisement.
So simple and so hard at the same time.
Top countries by oil production 1965-2018.
How to choose the best job in data science? Tools? Resources? Salary? Perks? Vacation? Team? Brand?Data.
Quebec City, QC.
Barcelona: day and night.
The state library of Victoria, Melbourne, Australia by Joseph Reed, 1854.
The lobby inside Paul Rudolph’s Burroughs Wellcome Company headquarters building in Durham, North Carolina.
Fixing a bug in production
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! You will find the link in the comments. In this issue: videos and slides from ICML 2020, AI achieves super-human performance at Gran Turismo Sport and makes the game of chess beautiful again, a state-of-the-art model for abstractive text summarization, a tool for asking coding questions directly from the terminal, the release of PyTorch Lightning Bolts, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! In this issue: videos and slides from ICML 2020, AI achieves super-human performance at Gran Turismo Sport and makes the game of chess beautiful again, a state-of-the-art model for abstractive text summarization, a tool for asking coding questions directly from the terminal, the release of PyTorch Lightning Bolts, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
The economics of a cup of coffee.
Aivazovsky Park in my native Crimea.
My new book in the never-sleeping Manhattan, NY with Marvin Mananghaya.
Oracle just open-sourced an ML library for Java. It doesn't have pipelines and doesn't support fit/predict interface. Ouch.
Kindergarten in Copenhagen, Denmark by Cobe, 2014.
So jealous! My readers get the book earlier than me :-) Thanks  James Odendal for the picture!
In the interview, ask the candidate if they believe it's important that the data scientist works on their dataset themselves. In case of any doubt about that, don't hire.
Equus Bass 770.
Both of my books were chosen as textbooks for this year's Machine Learning course at Drexel University in Philadelphia, PA!
Solid science fiction.
Great news! Amazon accepted my new book for the reduced price. Currently, you can buy it with a 10% discount. Just so you know, on Amazon, there are two types of books: those published by publishing houses (traditional books) and those published by independent authors via Amazon's own Kindle Direct Publishing (KDP) platform.Traditional publishers set a high retail price but sell books to Amazon in bulk with a huge discount, usually 50%. This is why you can see such big discounts on popular books. Most of them priced for retail as $70 or more but Amazon sells them for $40-50.When an author publishes independently with KDP, like me, the author sets the retail price, and Amazon sells most of such books for exactly the same price. For rare releases, Amazon can set a discount. In such cases, the author's revenue remains the same, but Amazon's revenue share is reduced. This is why when Amazon sells your KDP book with a discount this is so cool: the book becomes more accessible for readers but the author's revenue is not affected. Thanks, Amazon!
Vertical garden in Madrid, Spain.
Fourier transform.
Hey, Spotify, if I systematically skip a song in my playlist, please move it to the "Skipped" playlist and remove it from other playlists.Hey, Google, if I say "Hey Google, remove this song from the playlist!" please do that. Also, please do like the song when I say "Hey Google, like this song."Looks so evident. Am I the only one who thinks that this should have been implemented years ago?
My daughter, 14, has just got her first job. This is how I feel.
Ferrari 250 GT SWB Berlinetta.
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: graph neural networks help Google improve the accuracy of ETA on Google Maps by 50%, Google's BigBird is a Transfomer for even longer sequences, 50 new planets confirmed in machine learning first, scraping court records data to find dirty cops, the dumb reason your AI project will fail, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. In this issue: graph neural networks help Google improve the accuracy of ETA on Google Maps by 50%, Google's BigBird is a Transfomer for even longer sequences, 50 new planets confirmed in machine learning first, scraping court records data to find dirty cops, the dumb reason your AI project will fail, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
I'm thrilled to announce that my new book, Machine Learning Engineering, was just released and is now available on Amazon and Leanpub, as both a paperback edition and an e-book!You can find more information on the release in the below article. I'll be in the comments to answer all the questions.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #engineering
Buddha 2077
The World Trade Centre Transportation Hub, New York, NY by Santiago Calatrava.
U.S. immigration by origin.
The Royal Portuguese Cabinet of Reading, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil.
A car parking in Cologne, Germany.
Opposing wearing masks in public is as logical as opposing wearing pants.
This book is a proof that when an author has written a great book, a publisher will always find a way to spoil it. The book was named by its authors "Practical machine learning" but the publisher said that data mining is the thing (it was a buzzword in the past) and the title needs it. "Tools and techniques" for keywords would not hurt either. Today, when people see "data mining" they assume that it's something very old and outdated, no matter how much effort the author puts into keeping the book up to date. Be true to yourself and never listen to an editor who says they know how to "improve your creation." Your art for them is just a way to make money, here and now.
If you are a machine learning engineer, you can avoid saying "multiple linear regression" or "simple linear regression" and can simply say "linear regression" for the same reason why you don't say "simple decision tree" or "multiple neural network".In machine learning, the dimensionality of the inputs is irrelevant unless it's so big that the data doesn't fit in memory.
The unit circle.
Barcelona, Spain.
To those who have been waiting impatiently, the keyword: "leanpub." More information on Tuesday ;-)
Classics.
Gardenhouse, Los Angeles, CA by MAD Architects.
I found it hard to work from home at first. Especially during the first two months: kids at home, fear to go out, the overall feeling of lack of organization and lost productivity.Now I mostly got used to it, but I still think that a modern organization needs the office. First of all, office makes people work together, interact as human beings. We are social species and we need that human contact. Besides, I can hardly imagine that I hire and onboard engineers by teleconference.I think that the concept of an office must be rethought though. Clearly, there's no need to be physically in the office all the time. I would take morning meetings from home, but I would eat lunch with colleagues in the cafeteria. I would walk after lunch in a neighboring park in the downtown.I think that teams, to actually be teams, must work together most of the time. However, staying at home from time to time for better concentration should be considered normal and should not be approved by the manager. You just do that when you need that.What would you change in the office so that you love to be back?
Mandarin Oriental, Melbourne, Australia by Zaha Hadid Architects (slated to open in 2023).
My thoughts exactly. Elon will remain in the human history for SpaceX which is cool. Really cool. But everything else this man does seems to be a marketing stunt. Including Tesla that was supposed to drive fully autonomously this year according to Musk.
The computer of a software developer, engineer, or data analyst must be as powerful as possible. Even if this implies making a hardware upgrade every year. For an organization, there's no better way to lose productivity than to have employees that wait for an application to respond instead of doing their work.
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You will find it in the comments to this post. In this issue: forcing fancy degrees in machine learning, why AI bias happens and why it's so hard to fix, AI begins to show signs of creativity, a tutorial on optimizing PyTorch code, methods for language generation with Transformers, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. In this issue: forcing fancy degrees in machine learning, why AI bias happens and why it's so hard to fix, AI begins to show signs of creativity, a tutorial on optimizing PyTorch code, methods for language generation with Transformers, and more.Subscribe to receive new issues in your email inbox.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #ai
Louvre Abu Dhabi designed by Jean Nouvel.
When I read in another white paper or the "About Us" section of a corporate website about "our unique AI-based solution".
There are rumors that Apple is about to launch its own search engine, a Google competitor. While I'm 99% sure it will be another failure, I'm 100% sure that Microsoft could launch a successful search engine simply by renaming Bing.No one would say they prefer Bing. Bing is Ballmer's legacy. And this is not a compliment.
The Namib Desert from space. The red coloring comes from a high concentration of iron oxide.
Chapel of Silence, Helsinki, Finland.
Subway station Place Saint-Henri, Montreal, QC.
Vista Tower, Chicago, IL.
Walterdale Bridge, Edmonton, AB.
This week's issue of the newsletter was just sent to the subscribers! In this issue: recovering an editable 3D object from a photo, music that responds to your feelings, a tutorial on support vector machines, a visual introduction to the structure of a neural network, liabilities and risks associated with AI, and more.#ai #machinelearning #ml #artificialintelligence
The Kansas City Public Library.
Charles Bridge, Prague, Czech Republic.
UAE Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi.
Just read an opinion that GPT-3, to be useful, should say "I don't know, ask an expert." instead of just answering the most likely text. If you require that, then also require from your cat-or-dog classifier to answer "I don't know what's that." when you show it a raccoon.
Very entertaining read.
I think that Apple forgot about millions of WordPress users who sell various stuff on their WordPress blogs: they also don't pay 30% to Apple.
Venice, Italy.
My weekly AI newsletter on LinkedIn reached the mark of 150,000 subscribers!#ai #artificialintelligence #newsletter
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox.In this issue: machine learning of sets, video lectures on deep learning for computer vision, robot playing badminton, Bayesian deep learning, a new framework for distributed reinforcement learning, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox.In this issue: machine learning of sets, video lectures on deep learning for computer vision, robot playing badminton, Bayesian deep learning, a new framework for distributed reinforcement learning, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
Grundtvig Church, Copenaghen, Denmark.
Advice to computer science candidates. Don't wait for an employer to offer you a job in the domain of your passion. Start working in this domain in your spare time!For example, let's say you want to get an exciting job in machine learning, but all job openings you find on the internet require hands-on experience with ML. Go to Kaggle, download a dataset, program a solution that gets to top 10%. Put this result on your resume, and put the source code on Github. Now you have your "hands-on experience"!
The Street, an 800-room student hostel by Sanjay Puri Architects in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Be happy.
"The Wire", Grenoble, France.
The Arabic edition of The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book is now published. The quality is awesome. The publisher reproduced the look and feel of the original English edition, but the quality is even higher than that of Amazon (which I thought was impossible to do!).A fun fact: I knew that the Arabic text is written from right to left, but I didn't know that the books are also binded the other way around!Another fun fact: my book is now available in 11 languages. This is this second most translated book on AI after the AIMA.
School of Economics of the University Bocconi in Milan, Italy.Design by Grafton Architects, completed in 2008.
How to talk to programmers.
Alfa Romeo Tipo 33 Stradale.
Be.
Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec, Quebec City, QC.
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox.In this issue: learning to transform video into a cartoon, a game for learning reinforcement learning, understanding the effectiveness of ensembles of deep models, a tutorial on deep generative models, a paper explained, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox.In this issue: learning to transform video into a cartoon, a game for learning reinforcement learning, understanding the effectiveness of ensembles of deep models, a tutorial on deep generative models, a paper explained, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
Vancouver Public Library, Vancouver, BC.
The Art Nouveau style hotel Gran Hotel Ciudad de México in Mexico City by Frenchman Jacques Grüber, 1899.
This is what depressed people look like. Don't forget to ask your neighbor or colleague how they are doing. Talk to them about something they care about most. Show them you care.
Starbucks in Dubai, UAE.
Brooklyn Bridge, New York, NY.
"La porta D'Oriente", Vittorio Giardino.
"If you have a procedure with ten parameters, you probably missed some."
Max Planck was told by his professor to not go into physics because "in this field, almost everything is already discovered, and all that remains is to fill a few unimportant holes." Planck replied that he didn't wish to discover new things, only to understand the known fundamentals of the field. Nevertheless, Planck's work opened up the field of quantum physics.Source: https://lnkd.in/ejMMHS9
- Say 'No'- Stop thinking about bad stuff after 5 minutes- Erase toxic people from your universeThe earlier you learn the above three skills the better.
#sql
Yoohoo! The Python code of The Hundred-Page Machine Learning book was saved to the Arctic Code Vault of Github!
Magdeburg Water Bridge, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany.
How to read marketing materials:- "We are a leader in X" -> there are other leaders in X, probably a thousand- "We are known for" -> known by our families and friends- "Probably, the best" -> with a probability above 0.1%- "It's certainly the best" -> At least one person is certain
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: deep learning's most important ideas, an AI that programs itself, theoretical insight into why deep learning is successful and, still, why it will not give us level 5 self-driving cars, a model that transforms selfies into a traditional portrait, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: deep learning's most important ideas, an AI that programs itself, theoretical insight into why deep learning is successful and, still, why it will not give us level 5 self-driving cars, a model that transforms selfies into a traditional portrait, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
When you put one sock on your left foot, the second sock automatically becomes the right sock. This is exactly how the quantum entanglement works.
Al-Shaheed Monument, Baghdad, Iraq by Saman Kamal, 1983.
If the Earth population was smaller, most cool things we have, like smartphones, advanced cars, drones, 3d printers, same-day delivery, megabits-per-second internet, and so on would probably still unavailable, because only a large potential market might justify the investment into R&D.It's hard to imagine what other cool things we could have if the population was twice as big as today.
Jewel Changi Airport, Singapore.
Remember this post? :-)
Middle-class is shrinking across the globe.The report: https://lnkd.in/g6YkHmXWhich income class does your family income fit in? Find it out: https://lnkd.in/gKRBzTX"Middle income" households are defined as those with income between 75% and 200% of the national median. The OECD average comprises available data from Australia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and United States.
Iris Van Herpen, Spring 2020.
Did you know?
A glance at the cover of the upcoming book.
One of my top book recommendations for machine learning.⠀⠀It's both accessible and thorough.⠀⠀All the info you need without the fluff.⠀⠀And you can even read the book online for free before you buy - https://lnkd.in/d75PYYn⠀Well done Andriy Burkov 👏👏👏⠀⠀This is a great choice for both beginners and experienced data scientists, so check it out and tag a friend who would find it helpful⠀#datascience #machinelearning 👉 Watch this if you want a job in data science -> http://bit.ly/dsdj-webinar👉 Follow me on Instagram for more content -> http://dsdj.co/instagram
Interior of Girona Cathedral, Girona, Catalonia. It has the widest gothic nave in the world (22m) and the second widest after that of Saint Peter's Basilica in the Vatican.
Great news: the price of my new book will be below $40 (before discount). Amazon accepted me for its beta testing of a new color printing technology which lowers the printing cost by $12!Not so great news: this beta testing only applies to books ordered on amazon.com and amazon.ca. On all other amazons (uk, de, fr, etc) the price will likely be above $50 (it's 300 pages vs. 140 in the first book). I will also try a different printing company, but they might not support Europe, Asia, South America, and Australia as well as Amazon. Will keep you posted. Of course, both Leanpub and Kindle will be available.
Stone statue of the goddess of mercy Kannon, located in the Izumi area of Sendai, Japan. It is the tallest statue of the goddess Kannon in the world (100 meters), the tallest in Japan, and one of the five tallest in the world as of 2018.
S&P 500 is back in green, slightly higher than its value 6 months ago. Probably it's the news about the vaccine that will most likely be available in September. Can't wait to be back to normal.
Two weeks ago, I accidentally sent an issue of my weekly artificial intelligence newsletter with the title "Machine Learning #26" instead of usual "Artificial Intelligence #26." Nobody, among ~120,000 subscribers, noticed :-)
Suspension railway, Wuppertal, Germany.
Budapest, Hungary.
This chart demonstrates a potential machine learning roadmap for machine learning engineers.
A new book from Kate Strachnyi ♕ and Kristen Kehrer, "Mothers of Data Science," is now available!
Yay 🎉 finally got the shipment 📦 of the 📚- Mothers of Data Science - co authored with Kristen Kehrer #books #mothers #reading
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find the link in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: machine learning to play Super Mario, a collection of GPT-3 demos and articles, MIT released a deep fake video about failed Apollo 11 mission, a fast vector similarity search library from Google, a talk on machine learning and causal difference, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: machine learning to play Super Mario, a collection of GPT-3 demos and articles, MIT released a deep fake video about failed Apollo 11 mission, a fast vector similarity search library from Google, a talk on machine learning and causal difference, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
To be or not to be?
This history professor knows how to teach.
La Sagrada Familia, Barcelona, Spain.
I have a free spot for a *simple* sponsorship in my tomorrow's AI newsletter. Contact me today if you want to get a 50% discount.
The most important inventions in machine learning:- logistic regression- decision tree- boosting- bagging- multilayer perceptron- gradient descent- attention (plus Transformer)- dropout- batch normalizationAnything missing?
Transportation of the Bullwinkle Oil Platform to the Gulf of Mexico in 1988.
Watching the news from America about new paint that kills coronavirus, and the scientist says "it can be used, for example, to paint the pen people use to sign credit card transactions."A pen. To sign credit card transactions. In 2020.
For the second time, Spencer Land pays 20 coupons allowing to purchase an e-book version of The Hundred Page Machine-Learning Book for $10 a copy. If you are a student, simply reply to Spencer's original post and he will send you the discount link. Thank you, Spencer, for this wonderful initiative!
roll-up, roll-up, get your discount here : The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book …If you are starting your ML journey, this is a really good book to have around; superb work by Andriy BurkovWe know its tough as a student having to find the cash to spend on extra books like this, so we are sponsoring 20 copies for students; it will only cost you $10 for the digital versionSimply reply to this post and I’ll send you a discount code/link  A massive thanks to Andriy for working with us in order to make this happenWhat are you waiting for?  Go get a copy and change the world … for the better!#innovation #technology #personaldeveloment #sustainability #globalassociates #bms #smartbuildings #smartcity #future #softwareengineering #ML #aiforgood #AI #aiethics
My book is #3 bestseller in AI on Amazon.
Evolution of the Latin alphabet.
28-foot ceiling kitchen and dining room with massive belvederes opening up to views of the Great South Bay, Bellport, Long Island, NY by Studio Rick Joy.
Wotruba Church, Vienna, Austria.
My book is number one on this list of the top 21 machine learning books from Digital Vidya.
And I have a machine learning joke but I cannot explain it.
Do you have a blog? Share the link to your blog in the comments and tell what your blog is about.
The evolution of 25 car companies logos.
People often use words million and billion interchangeably to denote a large number. However, the difference between the two is enormous: one million seconds is 11 days, one billion seconds is 31.7 years.
International Museum of Barroco, Puebla, Mexico by Toyo Ito & Associates.
GPT-3 is the closest thing to artificial general intelligence (AGI) that I ever saw. It's so strong that it makes me nervous.
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find the link in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: GPT-3 is shockingly good, Sony has filed a patent for creating personalized music, top ten free AI courses from top universities, a GAN than generates PAC-MAN, scientific fact-checking using language models, a state-of-the-art transfer learning for computer vision, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: GPT-3 is shockingly good, Sony has filed a patent for creating personalized music, top ten free AI courses from top universities, a GAN than generates PAC-MAN, scientific fact-checking using language models, a state-of-the-art transfer learning for computer vision, and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
If a million monkeys were typing on computers, one of them will eventually write a Java program. The rest of them will write Perl programs. — Anonymous
The Old Library, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland.
One nuclear physicist told a story. He changed the domain from nuclear physics to software development. He says: "Working in IT is quite cool: you just download the needed library, then write code and google solutions in case of problems. In nuclear physics, the needed thing will be built in 20 years and the only document you can google on the topic was written by you."
I highly recommend "The 100 Page Machine Learning Book" from Andriy Burkov as a magnificent piece of its art. Every page is worth the time reading it!What I cherish most about it:1) It contains well-defined arguments on comparative/relative (dis-)advantages of the algorithms described. 2) The book tells specifically what are/aren't use cases for the various approaches. 3) The most necessary formulae and assumptions are contained. No more. Any opinions on this book you want to share? #artificialintelligence #datascience #algorithms #machinelearning #ml #ai #ki #künstlicheIntelligenz
I look for an experienced statistician who would like to validate one chapter of my Machine Learning Engineering book, the one on model validation (bootstrapping, confidence and prediction intervals, A/B testing). Please contact me for more details at author@mlebook.com
Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it. — Brian W. Kernighan
Real books.
On the importance of the sentence length.
Hofstadter's Law: It always takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law.
The Burj Khalifa, Dubai, UAE.
The Machine Learning Engineering book is ready and sent to reviewers! Will be released in September. Subscribe to the mailing list on mlebook.com to stay tuned.
The twenty-sixth issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find the link in the comments to this post. In this issue: practical skills for the AI product manager, a free book on PyTorch and a hands-on guide on TensorFlow 2.0, risks of building ML systems and a report on AI adoption in the enterprise, a browser extension that automatically finds code for ML papers and more.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ai #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: practical skills for the AI product manager, a free book on PyTorch and a hands-on guide on TensorFlow 2.0, risks of building ML systems and a report on AI adoption in the enterprise, a browser extension that automatically finds code for ML papers and more.
Bill Gates hacked.
A good manager surrounds themselves with good explainers. If you are a manager and you ask your team member "What's that? What's that for?" and after 2 minutes of explanations you still have no idea what's that and what's that for, you are surrounded by wrong people.
Habitat 67, Montreal, QC.
In this painting by painter Juan Lucena entitled "What will we do without them" are all those older people who died because of Covid-19, as well as the grandchildren who could not say goodbye to them.
People who write "c u", "how r u?", "tnx": what do you do with all that saved time?
The Lebowski Theorem of machine superintelligence:No superintelligent AI is going to bother with a task that is harder than hacking its reward function.
My book now traveled more than 280 locations around the world. If you don't see the location where you have been with my book, please comment. I will update the map.
The difference between machine learning research and machine learning practice is that in research, we spend months trying hard to design an algorithm complex enough to gain 0.3% improvement over the previous best algorithm.In practice, we use a simple algorithm and spend one week annotating more data to gain a 3% improvement over the previous week's result.
A machine learning algorithm walks into a bar. The bartender asks, "What will you have?" The algorithm says, "What everyone else is having?"
It's annoying that people writing about machine learning and statistics use the word "sample" in the sense of a single training example. For example, they could write "a model takes a sample as input and outputs a prediction." You have no idea, whether the model takes one or several elements as input and how many outputs it yields.A sample is a randomly chosen *collection* of examples from a larger collection. So, a sample is a group of examples, not an individual example. Sample and example cannot be used interchangeably. Doing so in your text makes it very hard to follow and could even make the entire text useless.
Dorotheen quartier, Stuttgart, Germany.
If famous scientists had a logo.
My book was named the best machine learning book for beginners in 2020.
For every complex problem, there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong. — H. L. Mencken
An observation after writing two books: the book's quality tends to perfection as the number of times the author reads the book tends to infinity. This is why fat technical books are rarely good: one read takes ~10 times more time than one read of a hundred-page book.
Koenig’s Case Study House #22 aka « Stahl House » in Hollywood Hills, LA, an illustration par Vincent Mahe in Revue America #1, March 17, 2017.
Ioannis Raptis enjoying summer with my book on Paros island, Greece.
The Prada Aoyama store, Tokyo, Japan.
The first 90 percent of the code accounts for the first 90 percent of the development time. The remaining 10 percent of the code accounts for the other 90 percent of the development time. — Tom Cargill
Alexandra et Pascal, an apartment with a view of the Eiffel Tower, Paris, France by Agence Charlotte Féquet.
A physicist, engineer and a statistician are out hunting. Suddenly, a deer appears 50 yards away.The physicist does some basic ballistic calculations, assuming a vacuum, lifts his rifle to a specific angle and shoots. The bullet lands 5 yards short.The engineer adds a fudge factor for air resistance, lifts his rifle slightly higher, and shoots. The bullet lands 5 yards long.The statistician yells: "We got him!"
Sir Tim Berners-Lee and the world's first website, Geneva, Switzerland, 1991.
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: how AI is driving a silicon renaissance, how Uber monitors data quality at scale, the 2020 SciPy talks, a visual survey of data augmentation in NLP, an OCR library that supports 40+ languages, a paper explained, and more. The link is in the comments.#artificialintelligence #ai #machinelearning #ml
This week's issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers. You can find it in this post. Subscribe to receive a new issue every week in your email inbox. In this issue: how AI is driving a silicon renaissance, how Uber monitors data quality at scale, the 2020 SciPy talks, a visual survey of data augmentation in NLP, an OCR library that supports 40+ languages, a paper explained, and more.
The new issue of my weekly AI newsletter will be sent to the subscribers tomorrow. If you missed last week's issue you will find it in the comments to this post.
— Do you have any recommendations from your previous employers?— Yes, they recommended me to look for a different job.
1965 Mustang Coupe.
Treat your time after work as your second job where you are the project. Invest your time and money to learn a new thing, try a new activity, become more healthy, do something that gives you a sense of accomplishment about yourself.You work hard for someone else's business. Work as hard for the business of your own well-being.
B2 Wine Library, Zurich, Switzerland. Interior design by Ushi Tamborriello, 2012.
Morpheus Hotel, Macau, China by Zaha Hadid Architects.
X percent of Y is equal to Y percent of X. If you want to find out what 6% of 50 is, you could instead calculate 50% of 6 is, which is 3. This means that 6% of 50 is also 3.
A visualization of capital movement.
Just compiled the first draft of the Machine Learning Engineering book. It will be 300 pages. One can now roughly estimate the timeshare of various activities in a machine learning projects: ~100/400 pages for the actual machine learning and ~300/400 pages for everything else.If the stars align as expected, the book will be released on September 1st🤞.
A self-solved Rubik's cube!
I'm worried about the coronavirus situation in the US. What do they say on the news? If the country could not stop the virus from the blue point, what is the strategy that would allow doing that from the red one?
Vienna University of Economics and Business, Wien, Austria, by Zaha Hadid, 2009.
Automated job candidate pre-screening is where real discrimination happens. No robot must decide whether your resume fits the position. Yes, humans are biased, but they could be held accountable for their biases. Who will hold software accountable?I would even say no software can be allowed to decide your fate based on your attributes as a human being. Unless proven to be unbiased, it's biased.
In case you didn't notice, but the times when Internet was a platform for free speech are over. Twitter is a quintessence of what the Internet has become: trolling, hatred, polarization, condemnation, lost jobs. If you are not a politician who enjoys that, as fish enjoys water, think carefully what you say online. The 90s are over. 30 years ago.
The 24th issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! Please like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform.The link is in the comments. Enjoy!
The 24th issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! Please like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform. Enjoy!#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #datascience #ml #deeplearning #ai
"A common mistake that people make when trying to design something completely foolproof was to underestimate the ingenuity of complete fools." — Douglas Adams
The Expiatory Church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus (Temple Expiatori del Sagrat Cor) in Barcelona, Spain.
If you are at an early stage in your career in industry, by lack of experience you could sometimes get to the conclusion that what you see happening around is normal, even if it doesn't look so.Here is some advice.1. If you are in a meeting and you are thinking something similar to "What the hell they are talking about? Looks like a flow of nonsense." you are most probably right. Change employers until the meetings become like "Wow, those people are so knowledgeable, I learn so much from each of them!"2. If your boss seems to get the pleasure of displaying their power over you when it doesn't seem necessary, you most probably stumbled upon a bad boss. Not a big deal: keep changing employers until you start seeing your boss as a source of daily inspiration.3. If you don't get enough respect from colleagues that aren't your subordinates, know that this is not a common practice. Mutual respect and assistance between colleagues are normal in healthy organizations. Keep changing employers until you start enjoying the respect of your peers.I hope this helps.
#machinelearning #ml #ai #artificialintelligence
We publish a popular weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter. Sponsorships are available for businesses based on AI and data. Contact us if you want to sponsor one of the upcoming newsletter issues.#ai #artificialintelligence #datascience #machinelearning #ml #bigdata #dataanalytics
You are here.
The Basilica of Saint Nicholas (Basiliek van de Heilige Nicolaas) in Amsterdam, Netherlands.
1927 Bugatti Type 41 Royale Coupe Napoleon and its chauffeur.
This is the most annoying "upgrade" if the Internet I could remember. The modern Internet could not work without cookies. Still, each time you visit any website for the first time you have to agree with that fact. It's like if each time I bought gasoline at a new gas station I needed to agree that driving can be dangerous.Imagine how much time is lost collectively by billions of people every day?Everything the European Union deputies invent about the technology looks like ramblings of a crazy man.
If you are sent a Pages file by a person with a Mac but you are on a PC, simply change the extension from .pages to .zip, and inside you will find a PDF version.If you need the photos off of a PPTX or DOCX, change the extension to .zip and you will find a folder with the images inside.
My weekly artificial intelligence newsletter just reached 100,000 subscribers. It makes it one of the largest sources of AI-related information of this kind. I'm happy to be able to keep up to date so many professionals and enthusiasts.Subscribe to the newsletter if you aren't a subscriber yet and recommend it to your friends and colleagues. The link for subscription is in the comments.#ai #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #ml #datascience
“The most important thing is to keep the most important thing the most important thing.” - Donald P. Coduto
Since the term "deep learning" has become mainstream, people are struggling to find the name for what was machine learning before it has become deep. Some say "traditional machine learning," for some it's "classical machine learning." Some use such words as "usual" or "old-school." Sometimes, I see such expressions as "deep and machine learning," which is especially awkward.The correct term is much simpler. There's deep learning and there's shallow learning. And it's not just a cute play on words. This is how the two approaches differ. Shallow learning learns to predict directly from the input features. This is why it's shallow.
Amazon bestseller in AI right now:
In case you missed this week's issue of the newsletter.#machinelearning #ai #ml #artificialintelligence
The 23rd issue of our weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform. Enjoy!#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #datascience #ml #deeplearning #ai
My book was named one of the top AI books to read in 2020.
When I defended my PhD dissertation in 2010, I wanted to work in the industry in the field of machine learning. I was afraid, however, that it's already too late to get into the field because machine learning was, in my opinion, a well-developed technology: Google was there, scikit-learn was there, Python was there, so I thought that everyone was aware of what machine learning can do, and use it for solving business problems.Today, ten years later, I finally start being right. Some companies indeed use machine learning for solving their business problems.
Downtown San Diego, CA.
This is how traffic jams are created:
Stonecutters' Bridge, Hong Kong.
Machine learning is more of an art than a science. However, without knowing the science your art will always be of an amateur level. Kind of only your mama will like it.
The difference between Twitter and LinkedIn.
The PULSE algorithm takes pixelated faces and turns them into high-resolution images. When it takes a pixelized Obama face it outputs a white face. This is an example of bias in AI: the situation when a machine learning model was trained on the data that has a high imbalance of some class (in this case, white people).People, including many scientists, tend to think that AI is right because its impartial and based on data. However, the AI is only right when trained on balanced data. What is balanced and how to ensure the right balance, it's a huge unanswered question.Image: Twitter / @Chicken3ggPULSE on GitHub: https://lnkd.in/efde43e
My top Python libraries for data science:scikit-learnPyTorchTensorFlowKerasPandasSciPyNumPySeabornspaCyXGBoostBonus:GensimScrapyFlaskMySQLdbhuggingfaceWhat's missing?
The 23rd issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform.The link is in the comments.Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml
The 23rd issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform. Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml
HAICHI serviced apartment in Bangkok, Thailand.
— Forget everything you learned in college. You won't need it working here.— But I never went to college.— Well then, I'm sorry. You are underqualified to work here.
Cathedral of the Russian Armed Forces, Moscow, Russia. Built in two years to mark 75 years since WWII, with 5000 people working on it, including 1000 artists.
Your family doctor suggests that you might have a serious disease. He recommends you to pass a test. If you are tested positive, you will have to get a very unpleasant treatment with a significant risk to lose health because of the treatment itself.There are two cliniques that make those tests. One uses an explainable AI and its accuracy is 95%. The other one uses a black-box model that has a 99.9% accuracy. Which one will you choose?
Indeed.
Suspension railway in Japan.
Ryogoku Yuya Edoyu Spa, Sumida City, Japan by Kubo Tsushima Architects.
Alan Turing was born on this day in 1912. Celebrated as "the father of computer science, mathematician, logician, wartime codebreaker, a victim of prejudice," he made foundational contributions to artificial intelligence, and theoretical biology during his short career.
The US is about to suspend the H-1B visa. It's a very short-sighted move because H-1B is a work-permit visa for the most skilled workers, such as scientists and engineers. Such workers are especially needed when the economy is stalling.Good news: Canada wants you. Under the Global Talent Stream program, skilled workers can expect their Canada work permits and Canada visa applications processed within two weeks.For federal immigration: https://lnkd.in/dhBN_gAFor Quebec (French-speaking): https://lnkd.in/dx3MT8k
The equations that changed the world.
The Oude Kerk church, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
Margaret Hamilton was the lead software engineer for Project Apollo (1961–1972).In the photo below, she is standing in front of the printouts of the programming code for the Apollo guidance system, a lot of which she wrote and which she oversaw.She was all of 31 when the Apollo 11 lunar module landed on the moon, running her code.
Xi’an Qujiang Art Center by GAD Architecture, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. Completed in 2019.
On the robot apocalypse.
Unsupervised learning will never output the model you want.With unsupervised learning, you cannot gradually improve anything.Once something changes in your data, you cannot be sure that the new unsupervised model will be consistent with the old one.Don't make an unsupervised model foundational for your business. It's only useful as a data preparation/understanding tool.Your production model must be supervised.
Inside the Saint Pancras Renaissance Hotel, London, United Kingdom. Design by George Gilbert Scott, completed in 1873.
To invent something extraordinary or to make something that changes the world, you have to be crazy. No normal people ever accomplished anything great. Being crazy is hard since the whole society rejects you from the very adolescence. It's a hard life, often full of disappointments. So, if you pursue happiness, you would better be normal.But if you can't be normal then accept that you are crazy, and do what you have to do. The 21st century is not the worst time to be crazy. Humanity has seen worse.
Reality vs. LinkedIn
Copper through the patina process.
Felix Hernandez with my book near Cerro de la Silla, Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico. Thank you, Felix, an awesome shot!
If you are subscribed to my weekly AI newsletter, please read this.
#ai #newsletter
The 22nd issue of our weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform. Enjoy!#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #datascience #ml #deeplearning #ai
The 22nd issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the newsletter on the platform. Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml
It's surprising but not many data scientists realize that their resume is part of their professional portfolio. If you cannot clearly organize your own life story on a piece of paper, how could you organize your client's or employer's data?
University of Washington Medicine Building by Perkins + Will.
We publish a popular weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter. Sponsorships are available for businesses based on AI and data. Contact us if you want to sponsor one of the upcoming newsletter issues.#ai #artificialintelligence #datascience #machinelearning #ml #bigdata #dataanalytics
Advice to computer science candidates. Don't wait for an employer to offer you a job in the domain of your passion. Start working in this domain in your spare time!For example, let's say you work for a boring IT consulting company, and you want to get an exciting job in machine learning, but all job openings you find on the Internet require hands-on experience with ML.Go to Kaggle, download a dataset, program a solution that gets to top 10%. Put it on your resume, and put the source code on Github. Now you have your "hands-on experience"!
Our talented and hard-working Kate Strachnyi ♕ has created a new online Visual Best Practices Course that would allow you to learn to design effective and beautiful data visualizations.I invite you to check it out!#visualization #datascience
Car color diversity, 30 years later.
I often receive questions from people in my network about what should they learn and master to become a data scientist. While I personally think that the term "data scientist" is very unfortunate and without a clear definition, this is what a good "data scientist" (in my own understanding of the term) has to master:- Data structures (local and distributed)- Data indexing- Data privacy and anonymization- Data lifecycle management- Data transformation (deduplication, handling outliers and missing values, dimensionality reduction)"- Data analysis (experiment design, supervised and unsupervised learning)- Machine learning tools and techniques (feature engineering, regularization, hyperparameter tuning, ensemble methods, and neural networks)- Data and model visualization, infographics- Computer and database programming, numerical optimization- Distributed data processing- Real-time and high-frequency data processing- Linux (my personal bias)A data scientist also has to be a good popularizer of complex ideas. Having a Ph.D. is not a requirement, but a very big plus: it contributes to the popularizing skill and teaches the scientific approach to problem-solving.#datascience #datascientist
Villa del Balbianello, Lenno, Italy.
If you feel frustrated about being a data scientist, you work in the wrong company.
I have created a Slack channel for the June 2020 reading club for those who just started or are about to start reading my book in June.If you want to read the book together with other readers, be able to discuss some points, ask questions and provide guidance to other readers, please send me an email (author@themlbook.com) and I will send you an invite to join the reading club.#thpmlb #machinelearning #artificialintelligence
Then and now.
How to work better.
Correlation vs. causation.
If you have experience and taste in designing technical or scientific illustrations please write to me at author@mlebook.com with the examples of illustrations you designed. I maybe have a gig for you.All illustrations for my upcoming ML Engineering book are ready, but I would like someone to put them in the same consistent visual style. Below is the style of one of the illustrations. (I use draw.io.)#illustration #graphicdesign #machinelearning #datascience #artificialintelligence #ai
The evolution of Crayola colors.
Tokyu Plaza Ginza by Nikken Sekkei, Tokyo, Japan.
A 1954 Mercedes-Benz 300 SL.
Did you ever wonder why you can turn off advertisements using AdBlock extension in your desktop version of Google Chrome, but you cannot do that on Android (by using an app)?In fact, why does Google let you turn off ads that generate billions in revenue as their core business? And why on the desktop only?The answer is simple: Google can block, in Google Play, any ad blocking app, and they do that. However, they cannot block other browsers on the desktop.If Google blocks the AdBlock extension in Chrome, many people will switch to a different browser where AdBlock is available. Google would rather let you block ads than switch to a different browser because whoever controls the browser controls the web.
In case you missed the new issue of my weekly AI newsletter, the link is in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive the entire issues to your email inbox.#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml
Church of San Giovanni Battista by the architect Mario Botta, Mogno, Switzerland, 1994-96.
Forth Bridge, Edinburgh, UK.
Modern software engineering is impossible to imagine without:—Linux—Terminal—Git—Github—StackOverflow—Google—Wikipedia—Virtualization—Jenkins—MySQL—Redis—Diff—Tomcat—Slack—JIRA—Chrome—SpotifySomething is missing?
Venice, Italy.
A weekend read.#artificialintelligence #machinelearning #python
If you always wanted to do something but didn't start because you think it would take too much time, the time will pass anyway.
Can someone help me rewrite this Python code in R for my upcoming book? There are just two snippets remaining, both include pipelines. One is below:from sklearn.pipeline import Pipelinefrom sklearn.svm import SVCfrom sklearn.decomposition import PCA# define a pipelinepipe = Pipeline([('dim_reduction', PCA()), ('model_training', SVC())])# train parameters of both PCA and SVCpipe.fit(X, y)# make a predictionpipe.predict(X[0])If you know how to do that in R in a succinct way, please contact me at author@mlebook.com#python #r
The 21st issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the issue on the platform. The link is in the comments. Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml
The 21st issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the issue on the platform. Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml
An interesting self-made AI curriculum.
Nasdaq is already above the pre-crisis level!
LinkedIn employees, do you have a contact where one could reach out to when something major is broken? Like when 91k newsletter subscribers don't receive an email with the issue?I opened a support ticket, but it might take days. Please PM me with the contact information. Thanks a lot!#linkedin
Seaside Guest House, Cape Town, South Africa.
Rose Hill, East 29th Street, New York City, NY.
Preface from The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence
Rodrigo Garcia Saiz with my book at Burgos Cathedral, Spain.
30 Cannon Street, London, UK.
This simple hack will save you a ton of time when you look for an alternative to something.
Many wannabe startup founders keep their "million-dollar idea" in secret and think that the idea itself is worth something. So they can approach someone and say: "I provide an idea, you provide implementation and we share the profits." or "I provide an idea, you provide money, we hire someone to implement and we share the profits."To all those who hope this would work, I address this message: without implementation, the value of your idea is zero. In fact, it's even less than zero because you hold onto this idea and don't do anything, while the time is ticking. So an idea it's not an asset, it's a liability.On a planet with almost 8 billion intelligent species, someone somewhere is already working on your idea, while you are "hiding" it in your head.Want to build a startup? Share your idea for free with someone who can bring expertise or money. Then get your share for what you can bring after the work has started.
56 Leonard Street, New York City, NY.
One of the most exciting activities in my professional life is to interview candidates. Many managers consider this activity a waste of time because interviews are long; statistically, you have one good candidate in five, and one exceptional candidate in twenty.However, I love interviews because of this special feeling when you discover *your* candidate: suddenly you feel that you and the person you have just met, you both speak the same language nobody in the room understands but you two. You understand each other without the need to finish the sentence, despite different cultural background, accent, country of origin and the past.I have chills when that moment happens. Suddenly a smile appears on my face and the remaining part of the interview goes as if two old friends talked about the things they care about.
Wangjing SOHO, Beijing, China by the architect Zaha Hadid, 2014.
When someone says "I'm a big data practitioner", I'm never sure, whether the data is big or the data practitioner.
Would you accept that a sheet of paper corrects, or otherwise alters, what you write on it?
Humber Bay Bridge, Toronto, ON.
People will anyway hate Facebook, and Zuckerberg personally, because it's a trend, but very few companies in the world did for open-source AI, and technology in general, as much as Facebook.
Some things can be so easy, but still, not everyone gets them. At work, if you are not sure, say: "I'm not sure." If you don't know say: "I don't know." If you have a question, say: "I have a question." If you need help say: "I need help." It's that easy.
The 20th issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the issue on the platform. The link is in the comments. Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #datascience #deeplearning
The 20th issue of my weekly AI newsletter is now sent to the subscribers! As usual, I ask you to like and comment to support my effort and add visibility to the issue on the platform. Enjoy!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ml #datascience #deeplearning
Raised bridges in Chicago, IL.
GM Technical Centre Reception, Warren, Michigan.
Oh, so Google collects and stores your personal data even when you are browsing in the mode Google called "Incognito." Nice, very nice.
Gaurav Gupta couture 2019.
BREAKING NEWS: The programmer accused of writing unreadable code declined to comment.
My book near the library at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden with Nadine Kraamwinkel-Jha
The Tomb of Ramesses VI, The Valley of Kings, Egypt.
S&P 500 for the last 12 months is in green!
The subscription link is in the comments :-)#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #ai #ml
People dealing with machine learning models are frequently confusing accuracy, precision, and recall.Accuracy is the ratio of correct predictions in all examples used for testing. So, you tested your model on 100 examples (some of them are positives, some are negatives, the ratio doesn't matter). The model correctly predicted the label of 97 examples of those 100, so your accuracy is 97/100 = 0.97.Precision is a measure of accuracy on the labels of interest only. Often, the labels of interest are positive labels (i.e., spam), but it depends on the application. So, you tested your model on 100 examples. The model predicted as spam 80 of them, but only 60 of those 80 were correct predictions, so your precision is 60/80 = 0.75.Recall is a measure of how many examples of interest your model has identified as such. Let's say you have 100 examples, you know that 70 of them are spam. Your model only predicted as spam 60 of those 70. So your recall is 60/70 = 0.86.Accuracy and precision are easy to confuse, but they represent totally different quantities, so be careful when you use these terms in conversations and reports.Precision and recall usually have a relationship of being mutually exclusive. When you try to increase precision, you decrease recall and vice versa.#ai #ml
Ok, I admit that writing a non-hundred-page technical book is extremely time and energy-consuming. I can only take my hat off to the authors who publish books of 1000 pages or more.But the process is moving. Slowly but surely.
Elon Musk sings the iconic Soviet song about cosmonauts.
I know what LinkedIn polls are for.
Museum of Coastal Geomorphology in Vancouver, BC (a concept design for an upcoming project by Amey Kandalgaonkar).
If you plan to do your Master's or Ph.D., choose your research advisor carefully. Ask about them his* current and past students, whether he was easily available for them, whether he responded to the requests for reference sent by their employers.My research advisor, when was asked by one of my first employers whether they should hire me, responded: "You will call me back to thank me if you hire him." This is what a great research advisor would do for his students.Unfortunately, not all research advisors are like this. For one of my hires, their research advisor didn't respond to two of my emails with requests for reference. I still hired the candidate, and I'm very happy with my choice. But the research advisor should be ashamed to ignore such requests about their recent alumni. To be available for their present and past students is advisors' direct duty.___________* or her
Construction site of the Osman Gazi Bridge between Dilovasıand Altınova, Turkey.
My book near Museu da Matemática in São Paulo, Brazil with Fabio Galuppo.
Kung Fu student asks his teacher: "Master, why does my ability not improve? I'm always defeated."And the master, pensive and forever patient, answers: "My dear pupil, have you seen the gulls flying by the setting sun, and their wings seeming like flames?""Yes, my master, I have.""And a waterfall, spilling mightly over the stones without taking anything out of its proper place?""Yes, my master, I have witnessed it.""And the moon... when it touches the calm water to reflect all its enormous beauty?""Yes, my master, I have also seen this marvelous phenomenon.""That is the problem. You keep watching all this shit instead of training."
Indoor-outdoor living space in the Butterfly House, Carmel, California by Feldman Architecture.
Why does nobody advise public people how ridiculous they look when they wear "designer" face masks or the masks that fit their outwear?
Twitter is basically an antenna that leases frequencies. One person can rent a frequency and start broadcasting at this frequency. Other people can tune in and listen to the broadcast.Twitter fact-checking public tweets is no different from the owner of an antenna that puts their stupid remarks into other people's broadcasts like "lol, that was so wrong!" or "jajaja what this broadcaster is talking about?".Absolutely irresponsible. Though bad PR is good PR.
Issue #19 of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now released. As usual, I ask you to share it with your colleagues and friends and subscribe if you aren't yet subscribed. Enjoy!Oh, and we are already 80k subscribers! Thanks, everyone, for being there.#artificialintelligence #ai #machinelearning #ml
Phillips Exeter Academy Library, Exeter, NH by architect Louis Kahn, 1972.
Great advice from xkcd!
An indicator that things might be getting back to normal is book sales on Amazon. Once the quarantine (or self-isolation) started to unfold around the world 10 weeks ago, Amazon basically stopped fulfilling book orders. You could still buy a book from Amazon but that option was hard to find on the book's page. A better alternative was to buy from a third-party seller, if, of course, such an alternative was available.Then, after about three weeks of worldwide quarantine, Amazon started to show the option of buying the book from Amazon, but with a warning (in orange) that the book will be shipped in 7 days.Then 7 vas replaced by 4. Then by 3, and now, since yesterday, it's normal 1-2 days shown in green.Of course, it could be an indicator that Amazon adapted to the situation, but I see it as things are getting back to normal.
Grundtvig’s Church, Copenhagen, Denmark. The building was designed by Peder Klint in 1913 and completed in 1940.
As you probably know, I decided to put both Python and R examples in my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book. I'm not very experienced in R, so I look for a volunteer to help me with re-writing my Python code in R.I also wrote several code snippets in R and I would like an R expert to validate them for conformity with the best practices of R programming.The names of all contributors will be mentioned in the book which will remain freely available online after the publication of the printed edition.Please send me an email at author@mlebook.com if you would like to participate. I will send you an invite to join the book's Slack workspace.#python #r #machinelearning
The only way to manage a data scientist is to explain the problem they need to solve, give a couple of initial possible directions, several paper suggestions, and then get out of their way.A data scientist is supposed to ask questions when necessary. Regular checkpoints two times a week are more than enough.A data scientist that needs to be micro-managed wasn't born to be a data scientist.#datascience #datascientists
In case you missed last week's issue of the newsletter, the link is in the comments to this post. You can also subscribe if you didn't yet.
South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute, Adelaide, Australia.
TL;DR Be very careful with Tesla and your money."Tesla has never earned an annual profit in nearly two decades of existence, yet its shares are valued more than Ford, Chrysler and General Motors combined. This valuation makes Musk's stake in Tesla worth nearly $30 billion despite the company selling just a fraction of the cars sold by its American competitors. Such a high net worth has not diminished Musk's ambition, as he is known for sleeping on production lines and issuing tyrant-like demands of his employees.""Is Tesla engaging in accounting fraud? The Securities and Exchange Commission charged Mr. Musk with fraud in 2018, but that was related to his infamous $420 "funding secured" tweet. If Tesla is cooking the books, it would be the financial scandal of the decade. One interesting tea leaf has been the revolving door of C-suite executives, especially key legal and accounting people, who all left substantial money on the table to quickly get out of Tesla. Some were only there for a matter of weeks. Why would so many people in the accounting and legal departments quickly exit after learning about Tesla's financial and business practices under Musk?"
Casa Batlló by Antoni Gaudí, Barcelona, Spain.
Dynamic facade of the Bund Finance Center, Shanghai, China.
Badshahi Mosque, Lahore, Pakistan, completed in 1673.
Self-driving cars still have a future. Because they are trained as a typical machine learning model, they will be extremely good on a fixed route: home-work, work-school, East Coast-West Coast, and so on.Car companies should just stop fooling themselves and the customers and start to work on the thing that will work.
Clearly, the sky didn't fall, the world economy did survive and life will go back to normal. If you want to get a competitive edge, it's better to start hiring now, while your competitors are still afraid and the best talent is there.
I don't understand the excitement of the media about work from home being the new trend. Large corporations compete who will leave their employees at home longer; some already decided until the end of 2021.Remote work was a trend in the early 2010s and it failed. Ask Yahoo, IBM, Aetna, Bank of America, Reddit, and many others who recalled their remote workers back to the office in the late 2010s.Remote work is fine for a short period of time, but in the long term for large corporations it's not a viable model.Currently, remote workers are effective because their teams were built in the office, through face-to-face discussions, physical contact between human beings in the office (during meetings and in the cafeteria), and during various informal offsite activities. Your current team members were hired via physical contact and then they were onboarded for many months with a human touch.Remove all that, and your team will become overtime just a bunch of faces you periodically see on your computer screen and don't care much about.
My book in Killiney Hill,  Dublin, Ireland with Krunoslav Popovic.
Ryugyong Hotel, Pyongyang, North Korea: the tallest unoccupied building in the world.
The new issue, #18, of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now released. As usual, I ask you to share it with your colleagues and friends and subscribe if you aren't yet subscribed. Enjoy!#artificialintelligence #ai #machinelearning #ml
Lombard Street, San Francisco, CA.
Three years ago I realized that there's no tool allowing serializing a web page: that is to save it today and then open in exactly the same state one year later. Exactly the same, not just looking similar. I remember making a post on that situation.Did it change? Did you hear about something like that? I would definitely need such a tool to work with the data from the web.
Quebec City, QC.
Just like antibiotics solved the problem of bacteria, AI will solve the problem of viruses. At least, for some time.
I find the process of data labeling very rewarding (and even addictive). Each time I label an example, I feel like my knowledge, experience, and skill are transferred into the model. I sincerely cannot understand when data scientists complain about being asked to do that.
1966 Pontiac LeMans.
Logistic regression is a classification learning algorithm and tomato is a vegetable.
Seaside resort cabin on Manshausen Island, Northern Norway.
Some people may have a PhD and you don't get to understand the idea they want to convey, while some don't have any advanced degree, but you perfectly understand them whatever the topic is. Communication is a very important skill.
My book helps to analyze satellite data! Thanks, Sérgio Saraiva, for sharing this picture.
Just because you can post a poll on Linkedin doesn't mean you should.
The first four chapters of my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book are almost ready for publishing: I integrated all improvement suggestions made by the readers so far and made my own full read which resulted in further improvements.While I'm working on the remaining chapters, I look for volunteers who would like to read the first four chapters during the next two weeks and suggest both stylistic and factual improvements to the text.If you are interested in being a volunteer, please go to the book's wiki http://mlebook.com and leave your suggestions directly as comments in the chapter files. Please use the highlighting tool to make it easier for me to relate your comments to specific parts of the text.Names of all volunteers contributed to the book's quality will be mentioned in both online and published versions of the book. The book's chapters will remain online after publication as the book will be published on the "read first buy later" principle.#machinelearning #engineering #book
The screenshot below is from my 2 years old post. Below are the updated numbers for today:"Right now in Canada, there are 1263 jobs open that require machine learning skills. 455 in Toronto, 315 in Vancouver, and 187 in Montreal."Despite the crisis, demand in machine learning grows.
The V&A Rotunda Chandelier (often known as V&A Chandelier and originally called Ice Blue and Spring Green Chandelier), a glass sculpture by Dale Chihuly. It hangs under the glass rotunda at the entrance to the Victoria and Albert Museum in South Kensington, London.
In case you missed the new issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter, below is the link to it. If you subscribe to the newsletter, you will receive all future issues in your email inbox.#artificialintelligence #ai #machinelearning #ml
2020 Shelby GT500.
The Le Panoramic du Brévent restaurant, Le Brévent, Chamonix, France.
Siavash Yasini has built this awesome mindmap based on my book.
I made a mind map summary of "The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book" by Andriy Burkov about a year ago and totally forgot about it until recently. It's a fantastic book and you should definitely check it out if you haven't had the chance yet. A quick glance at the branches in the mind map helped me remember (almost) all the core topics discussed in the book so it was a great way for me to review the material in a structured manner. Since this is a very popular book—deservedly so—I thought there'd be a good chance there is another fan out there who might enjoy browsing the mind map (perhaps in preparation for interviews, exams, or life in general) so I made it public here:https://lnkd.in/gkMznUkNeedless to say, this is just my personal notes and is not a replacement for the actual book. Think of this more as a hierarchical table of contents that is full of typos, errors, and missing details. link to the book:http://themlbook.com/Also, if you'd like to contribute and improve/edit the mind map send me a message or leave a comment. #machinelearning #datascience #mindmap
Chile.
On the Staten Island Ferry Looking Toward Manhattan, a painting by Richard Estes, circa 1989.
The Golden Bridge, Da Nang, Vietnam.
As you probably know, I decided to put both Pythion and R examples in my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book. I'm not very experienced in R, so I decided to ask volunteers to help me with re-writing my Python code in R.My Python code is object-oriented and I received advice to not use OOP in the R version of the code because it would look artificial.There are three reasons I decided to use the OOP paradigm:1. Compatibility with the Python code (otherwise the Python and R versions of the same code would look inconsistent).2. Incapsulation is recommended for the production code.3. R has 3 OOP versions, so I thought it would be instructive for the reader to learn at least one from my book.I need advice. Should I use OOP in R code when the equivalent Python code is OOP or should I keep OOP only for Python?Also, please send me an email at author@mlebook.com if you would like to volunteer in adapting my Python code to R.#python #r #machinelearning
The new seventeenth issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter is now released. As usual, I ask you to share it with your colleagues and friends and subscribe if you aren't yet subscribed. Enjoy!#artificialintelligence #ai #machinelearning #datascience
Writer's block.
The new issue of my weekly AI email newsletter will be released tomorrow morning. In the meantime, enjoy this gorgeous 1936 Peugeot 402.
I have created a Slack channel for the May 2020 reading club for those who just started or are about to start reading my book in May.If you want to read the book together with other readers, be able to discuss some points, ask questions and provide guidance to other readers, please send me an email (author@themlbook.com) and I will send you an invite to join the reading club.If you are familiar with Slack, you can ask to join the channel #reading-club-may-2020 by using this link: https://lnkd.in/eaJFDYf
Rule of effective communication #1: don't assume anyone else knows (or cares about) those acronyms your employer uses internally.
Bedroom with workspace integrated behind the headboard and views of Atlantic Ocean Studio Arthur Casas, Ipanema, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Each time I see someone celebrating filing a patent, I cannot help but think that the person celebrates the slowdown of the progress. I can understand that the person is happy that their invention is now officially recognized, but the world has just got an additional difficulty to move forward.
Leeds Corn Exchange, Leeds, England.
1967 Camaro SS.
My book in Melbourne, Australia with Chris May.
Golden Gate Bridge, view from Marshall’s Beach, San Francisco, CA.
My weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter has reached 70,000 subscribers. I truly believe that it's one of the best sources of what's really important or curious to know in the world of AI.For many years I looked for a good way to stay updated in this domain but couldn't. The amount of noise was too high and the ratio signal/noise was too low. That is why I decided to build my own newsletter: I thought that I'm not the only one who had that problem and 70,000 subscribers prove me right. Subscribe if you didn't do that yet. I left the link to the most recent issue in the comments. #ai #artificialintelligence #machinelearning #datascience
True.
Erasmusbrug, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
In case you missed the new issue of my AI newsletter this week.
If you closed a browser tab by accident, ctrl-shift-t (cmd-shift-t on Mac) will open the just closed tab back. This is the most important invention in web browsing after tabs themselves.
Tomb of Bibi Jaiwindi, Uch Sharif, Pakistan.
My team works on building AI systems but never in our discussions we say "AI," because it would sound lame. I believe it's the same for most hands-on AI teams. Though in marketing, everyone says "our AI this, our AI that." I think that it's an indicator of too much unsubstantiated hype around the term. If engineers really thought they build an AI they would say it.
1987 GMC Suburban.
Mars.
You should never, ever let data scientists code for production. Data scientist's role is to prove that some hypothesis is true/wrong. Once the proof is there, an engineer has to analyze the solution provided by the data scientist (if a solution exists) and find a scalable and maintainable way to implement the solution for production.This means that not all of the solutions found by data scientists are good for the business, even if they prove the hypothesis. A famous example is a winning solution to the Netflix prize challenge, which gave the expected result in terms of prediction error but never went to production because of its excessive and unnecessary complexity.
Lines of elevation of the Americas from 60° S to 60° N.
Hamburg, Germany.
271 Spring Street Office Building by John Wardle Architects, Melbourne, Australia.
Sorry, Bill.
A line of prospectors at the Chilkoot Pass during the Gold Rush, US-Canada border, 1898.The Gold Rush took place mostly on the Canadian territory of Yukon, along The Klondike River. Canadian authorities let American prospectors pass, but set up customs posts guarded by mounted police. At customs, the police took the duty and checked that each person had a supply of food for one year (520 kg). To transfer provisions and other luggage through the post, a prospector had to make about 30 ascents.According to estimates, up to 100,000 people tried to reach Klondike between 1897 and 1898, up to 40,000 succeeded, but only about 4,000 managed to make money on gold.The place had a major shortage of supplies. For example, salt was bought for gold sand, 1 ounce of gold for 1 ounce of salt.According to estimates, prospectors spent on travel, supplies, and tools several times more money than the cost of the gold they managed to extract (the cost of labor not included).The main profit was made by shipping companies, Seattle inventory dealers, Canadian customs, guidebook publishers, and others.
Instead of letting employers lay off 20% of people and then paying an unemployment benefit to all laid off, governments worldwide would better pass to a 4-day week. There will be no better moment to do that than now.
The Chinese edition of my book has got 200 ratings on DangDang, one of the most popular online stores in China. If you read in Chinese, you can safely buy this book: the quality is awesome especially considering a below $5 price tag for a full-color edition.
The new issue of my AI newsletter is now released. As usual, I ask you to share it with your colleagues and friends and subscribe if you aren't yet subscribed. Enjoy!
2018 Ruf SCR.
Various organizations are laying off their employees in thousands. I'm wondering how many of them wrote in job postings "by joining our organization you become part of a family." A family doesn't lay off their son, or uncle, or nephew.Don't say "family" when you don't mean it.
From a job description: "In this role, you will have to communicate with senior management." as if senior management were people with special needs that require some unusual form of communication.
Be like Harold.
My book in Istanbul, Turkey with F. Firat Gonen, PhD.
Marina Bay Sands, Singapore.
Just read in one job posting: "We believe in Agile methodologies."I suspected that Agile was a cult. After all, Agile has a manifesto, multiple "rituals and ceremonies" (they literally call them that) like 4 kinds of meetings that you must do even if you have nothing to discuss (during one meeting everyone must stand!), a high fee to become certified (without exam), principles so vague that they make everything you do agile, and a belief that if Agile doesn't work for you, you just must learn to do Agile properly (better by becoming certified without exam).
Rain Bridge, Liuzhou, China.
Each time I see that a job description requires 9 years of experience with something, I'm curious how they came to this number? How did the discussion happen? "Do you think that 8 years of experience is enough?" "No, we need at least 9 years!" or "Let's ask for 10 years of experience?" "No, I think that 9 years is fine!"Something like that?
Augmented reality cut & paste project: https://lnkd.in/ekC2_3J
Is tea or chai for you?
Some industries might be entirely over because of the coronavirus, even if all restrictions are withdrawn. It's hard to imagine an educated person, who didn't yet contracted the virus, to do the following during the next 12 months or longer:- travel on a plane or a bus- attend a conference in person- share a car- share a house or a condo- sit in a crowded restaurant- swim or go to an amusement park- exercise inside with other people- get a wedding party- get a tattooOne year without clients is impossible to survive as a business.Don't you agree or did I miss any industry? Tell in the comments.
Gladstone's Library, known until 2010 as St Deiniol's Library, Hawarden, Wales.
L'Oreal office building by IAMZ Design Studio, Stockholm, Sweden.
In case you missed the most recent issue of my weekly AI newsletter, you will find the link in the comments section of this post.#ai #ml #artificialintelligence #machinelearning
Supertrees, Singapore.
Doing a Master's is the most effective way to show your first serious employer that you can work independently, you are creative and get things done.It also demonstrates your curiosity, perseverance, writing, and presentation skills, and pays you a good stipend.
Hotel Kardial Spa by Enota Architects, Banja Vrućica, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The ugly truth is that you might think that putting Word and Excel in your resume in the 21st century is lame and bad taste, but corporate HR still put those in job descriptions. The stupid machines that sort job applications in the decreasing order of similarity with job descriptions will score your application low because it doesn't contain MS Office skills. For a machine, a skill is a skill.
The Lit & Phil Library, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK.
Eleven most important AI links of the week. Read, like, share with friends and colleagues!#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #datascience #deeplearning #ml
If you were to name only one piece of software that was a "wow" discovery for you for the last 5 years, what would it be?For me, it was Sublime Text.Leave your favorite in the comments. Vote for the comment that would be the same for you.
Accidentally discovered this article by Jaime Zornoza about my book. Usually, I don't share Medium but here I couldn't resist:"One of the reasons why I love reading so much is the following: some person (the author of a book) spends a lifetime learning, investigating, and collecting information about a certain topic. Then, he condenses that information for other people in a text document which can be no more than 100 pages sometimes.That is the case of this book. Years of experience in the Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence world condensed into 100 beautifully written pages. A true gem."Thanks, Jaime.
The CLYMB building, Abu Dhabi, UAE.
1969 Mustang Mach1.
My weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter has reached 60,000 subscribers! I invite you to subscribe if you haven't already. You will find the link in the comments to this post.#artificialintelligence #newsletter #datascience #machinelearning
Sagrada familia, Barcelona, Spain.
Jewel Changi Airport, Singapore.
Mariusz Gorczyca with my book in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #reading
ISS crossing the face of the sun.
Did you ever wonder why companies pay Google for the keyword search of their name if they are already on the top of the search results?If you did, then here's why. They bid the highest price for the click so that their competitor (say, Nike) cannot place their ad higher than the organic link.This is how Google made everyone pay.
The Iceberg apartments by SeARCH + CEBRA + JDS + Louis Paillard Architects, Aarhus, Denmark.
YSS Bridge, Istanbul, Turkey.
The Atlantic Road, Norway.
1972 Buick Riviera "Boat Tail".
In the case you missed it, the new issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter can be found in the comments to this post. Subscribe if you want to receive it in your email inbox.
Urban planning before AutoCAD, 1950s, USA.
Do you also think that website as a concept died? I mean, we still have the Internet full of websites, but do we still visit specific websites? In the 2000s, we had hundreds of types of websites. Today, I only see three types: an online store (basically the same physical store you don't need to physically visit), a corporate website (basically a business card), and a multipurpose community.Multipurpose communities are usually huge and there is only a handful of them. Corporate sites are small, numerous and they only exist at the moment you google something. Online stores are just 2D stores.I'm asking because I learned the internet in 1998 and I still think in terms of websites when I'm thinking about building something online. But yesterday I asked myself: ok, I build a website. Who would come to it and why? And who would come back?I don't see anybody. And you?
Stadtbibliothek Stuttgart, Germany.
My thoughts with all whose jobs or job opportunities were affected by this crisis. Some lost a job, some didn't get a job of their dream.On the bright side, when this crisis is over, there will be some period (I hope so) when the companies will hire talented people not because they can, but because they really need that talent.I hope to hire rare pearls because we have so many awesome things to do, you have no idea.
A telephone tower in Stockholm, Sweden, circa 1890. The tower served 5500 subscribers. Each subscriber had their own dedicated cable.
Taj Hotel, Mumbai, India.
Luke Kenworthy from RE•WORK, the company that organizes the world's leading AI summits, just recommended my book as one of the ten must-read AI books in 2020. Find the entire list by following the link below.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence #reading
1956 Ferrari 410 Superamerica.
A dozen of the most important AI links of the week. Feel free to subscribe to receive the newsletter in your email inbox and share it with your friends and colleagues.#machinelearning #artificialintelligence
The full rotation of the Moon as seen by NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter.
1998: if your startup name doesn't end with ".com" you are lame.2005: if your startup name doesn't contain at least two dots and doesn't end with ".us" you are lame.2009: if your startup name doesn't end with "lr", "mr", "tr", you are lame.2011: if your startup name doesn't end with ".ly" you are lame.2013: if your startup name doesn't start with "get" or end with "app" you are lame.2015: if your startup name doesn't end with ".io" you are lame.2017: if your startup name doesn't end with ".ai" you are SO lame.2020: Startup? What startup?
Cologne Cathedral (Kölner Dom), Cologne, Germany.
Paintings in flowers by Tulipina, New York, NY.
City of Perth Library, Perth, Australia.
Livraria Ler Devagar, Lisbon, Portugal.
My book with Andrew Long, PhD in the Australian desert near Uluru, one of Australia's most recognizable natural landmarks.
"Cable car heaven" by the artist Evgeny Lushpin.
Do you excel?
Thousands of Israelis maintain social distancing while protesting Netanyahu.
Internet in the 90s. Such nostalgia!
The Exchange by Kengo Kuma and Associates, Sydney, Australia.
Just heard on the news that the French police already handed out over 800,000 fines for violating coronavirus lockdown. Seemingly, the French government has found the cleverest way to get the money to pay for the economy shutdown.
In a mall in Russian Novosibirsk, the 1.5 meter distance is illustrated with a bear and the text says "Please keep the distance of 1.5 meter (approximatively a small bear) from each other."
I compile once a week a list of a dozen most interesting and useful (in my opinion) links about AI. Then this list is distributed among the subscribers of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter on LinkedIn (yes, LinkedIn has newsletters and they come to your email inbox!).I strive to make my new newsletter the reference source of information of what's important in the world of AI for enthusiasts  and professionals alike.I invite you to subscribe to my newsletter and share this invitation with your network. Here's link to the newsletter: https://lnkd.in/exVEY6U
2020 Ferrari Roma.
My book in Sarajevo with Belma Ibrahimović.
I care to compile, once a week, a dozen of the most interesting and useful (in my opinion) links about AI. I distribute them in form of a newsletter the subscribers receive in their email inbox.I invite you to subscribe to the newsletter. If you are already subscribed, then share this post with your network. I strive to make my newsletter a primary source of information on AI for enthusiasts and professionals alike.#ai #machinelearning #artificialintelligence #datascience
Medibank headquarters, Melbourne, Australia.
Email fascinates me by its ability to survive. So many communication ways came and gone during the recent two decades, but the position of email has not been shaken.Artificial Intelligence has not just solved the problem of spam. It allowed accurately grouping messages in threads, detecting the character encoding, it autocompletes sentences we are typing and even offers entire reply options by analyzing the text of the message.Which is why it's so surprising to still see on a typical "Contact us" page so many addresses: info@company.com, support@company.com, press@company.com, sales@company.com and so on.It's especially surprising to see such a variety of addresses on the website of a company that provides AI as a service or product. If you claim to be an expert in AI, classifying incoming messages by topic should be a piece of cake for you.Having separate email addresses is only justified when the address is either personal or confidential. Otherwise, one email address like hello@company.com should be enough.
Grace Hotel, Santorini, Greece.
Yohji Yamamoto, Fall 2019.
"A little longer" by the artist PascalCampion.
Wow!
Triplebyte suggests The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book as the top machine learning resource for people who take the Machine Learning quiz on the Triplebyte website!Thanks Kevin Meyers for sharing this with us.#machinelearning
Lions Gate Bridge, Vancouver.
The new issue (#13) of the Artificial Newsletter is now released. If you enjoy it, leave a comment or a like for more visibility, or forward it to your friends and colleagues.
Heddal Stave Church, Heddal, Norway.
I excel at powerpoint, you have my word.
Barcelona, Spain.
“The problem with the world is that the intelligent people are full of doubts, while the stupid ones are full of confidence.” ― Charles Bukowski
My weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter reached 50,000 subscribers! If you are not subscribed yet and would like to follow all important developments in the field of AI, subscribe by following the link in the comments. When subscribed, you will receive new issues directly to your email inbox.
The Grotto, a sauna designed by Partisan Architects, Toronto, ON.
If you start building your next text analytics or retrieval system based on searching or counting keywords, congratulations: you are still living in the 1980s. Stemming, lemmatization, stop-words, dictionaries, TF-IDF, all that is as relevant today as a stone ax.It's OK to support a keyword-based system that already exists though. After all, there's no guarantee that you will manage to build something better.
Since the pandemic started, Amazon reduced service for all non-essential goods, books included. You still can order the book with delivery from one of Amazon's fulfillment centers, but it's not the default option. Now the default option is a used book and the price is 66.37! (The new one is still available for $29.98 but you have to click on "5 New from $67.55" link.)
Here's how The New York Times created each issue in the 1940s.
Inside the Study Center of the Herzogin Anna Amalia Library in Weimar, Germany. Design by Hilde Barz-Malfatti and Karl-Heinz Schmitz, built 2001-2005.
Baker Street Station, London.
Lombardy, Italy.
This is how Peter Wang, the creator of Anaconda, spends time in self-isolation.
Fenghuang County, Hunan Province, China.
The traditional hiring practices are driven by business needs. The business decides where it would like to be in one year, then the corresponding hiring strategy is developed. That approach worked well for plants and factories in the mid-50s of the 20th century. This is also why companies still use the approach of "going where the resources are".Today, however, we live in a completely different world. Technologies became very complex and diverse. The talent also becomes very heterogeneous. Modern companies should constantly adapt their business goals based on the talent available on the market. The best strategy becomes hiring the best talent when you can and then deciding how to leverage the available talent in an optimal way.
Tromsdalen Church, Tromsø, Norway.
If you missed the new issue of the weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter, the link is in the comments to this post. Subscribe to receive future issues in your email inbox.
The computer of a software developer, engineer or data analyst has to be as powerful as possible. Even if this implies making a hardware upgrade every year. For a company, there's no better way to lose in productivity than to have employees that wait for an application to respond instead of working.
Tallinn, Estonia.
Painting to 3D transformation using a neural network: https://lnkd.in/ejd--_x
OK, this is good news. With technology like that, we can keep living a normal life* and only stay in quarantine when really necessary.Can't wait for this to be put in use.* With social distancing and hand washing of course.
Fenghuang, Hunan, China.
My book in Dublin with Fady Anwar.
The new issue of my Artificial Intelligence newsletter is out. Share it with your friends and colleagues.
I continue publishing on LinkedIn the chapters of The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book. This time it's Chapter 10 Other Forms of Learning. Other chapters are available by the following hashtag: #theMLbookChapters
Ladera Resort, Saint Lucia.
Bamberg, Germany.
Stas Antropov traveled with my book and shared a couple of pictures with me. Here's his story: "I saw another pic of the ML book in your feed and thought I'd send you mine. I've been using your book as a general guideline to self-study ML. It's a long journey and I've carried the book in my backpack through the US, Russia, Kazakhstan, and Italy so far. Here are a couple of pics from Kazakhstan earlier in the year. Sorry, the book is a little dog eared by now :)"If you want to share a story of your travel with my book, you are very welcome.
Not sure about you, but I want back to the office. Work from home sucks.
Many people see machine learning as something complex, while what can be simpler for a human than to give examples of a solution to make the machine solve the problem?And what can be more complex for a human than to write the  code to make the machine understand what you what from it.
The Galleria Vittorio Emanuele shopping mall, Milan, Italy.
New York City, NY in 1888.
Isle of Erfjord Sand, Lovrafjorden, Norway.
On failures.
Residential buildings The Interlace, Singapore.
Boris Johnson, 55, one of the few people in the world who can have the best medical care, is now in intensive care with Covid-19 symptoms. If this is not a reason to take this situation seriously and stop wandering around without a goal, then what is?It concerns not just irresponsible people, but irresponsible governments like Sweden and Belarus. No one is immune. (Pun unintended.)
The Pannenhuis metro station, Brussels, Belgium.
My book in Seoul with Brett Sceli.
The law of programmer multiplication.
"Dunning–Kruger effect is a cognitive bias in which people with low ability at a task overestimate their ability. It is related to the cognitive bias of illusory superiority and comes from the inability of people to recognize their lack of ability." - Wikipedia
Why do I keep hearing everywhere that the future of machine learning is not supervised, it's self-supervised? Self-supervised learning is still supervised. The only difference is that the labeled data (text) was created by millions of people who didn't know they created labeled data. When you write a sentence, you put words in a specific form and order. The choice of the form and the order is implicit labeling. You can learn *something* from such labeled data, but not *everything*. At least not with the math we currently base our state-of-the-art machine learning on.For me, it looks like an attempt to create the next big thing and to use it for pumping millions from venture capitalists who don't give money for deep learning anymore.
Palauet Casades library, Barcelona, Spain.
Google's recent Community Mobility Report showing how people in different locations adhere to self-isolation is both fascinating and worrying. I mean, we knew we were all watched for years, but now you can see to what extent and granularity.
Schwerin Castle, Schwerin, Germany.
"New Jersey desperately needs COBOL Programmers.""That’s what the State’s Governor, Phil Murphy, apparently meant today, when he said at a press conference that the State needed volunteers who with “Cobalt” computer skills to help fix 40-year-old-plus unemployment insurance systems that are currently overwhelmed as a result of COVID-19-related job losses."Anyone with Cobalt skills available? Otherwise, the state of New Jersey has a problem.
One of the most exciting activities in data analysis is the creation of the training data. Usually, this process consists of some sort of manual labeling. For example, you read the document and label it with one or many topics.I see the creation of a training data as a way to literally transfer the knowledge and reasoning, living inside my brain, into the machine. Without this training data, the machine is just an empty shell. The training data transforms this empty shell into something that we, humans, perceive as machine intelligence.
The National Library of Sweden, Stockholm, Sweden.
There are two kinds of people.Avoid both.
Salesforce Tower, San Francisco, CA.
The eleventh issue of the AI newsletter is out! Enjoy it? Forward it to your friends and colleagues.
China Central Television headquarters by Rem Koolhaas and Cecil Balmond, Beijing, China.
Chicago, IL.
Sedona, AZ.
If time machine worked.
Rohit Bal, Summer/Resort 2020.
The roofs of Saint Petersburg, Russia.
The Christian Dior flagship store by architects Christian de Portzamparc and Peter Marino in Seoul, Korea.
Sorin-Alexandru Radu just started reading my book and looks for other readers to join a reading group with him to simplify the learning and make the process interactive. Contact him if you want to join. The link to his post is in the comments.
The wine box that can be reused as a birdhouse.
(a+b)^3
USB in a nutshell.
UN city by 3XN, Copenhagen, Denmark.
New York, NY.
I received a ton (!) of emails from people volunteering to help me with R scripting for my Machine Learning Engineering book. Thank you all. I will get back to each of you with a message once I have time to read through all the messages I received and figure out the best way to go forward. Thanks a lot once again, you are awesome!
Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Winter 2019.
Small children equally value imaginary things and "real" ones. But then, at some point, other children that have less imagination, and their own parents, tell them that imaginary things have no value and only "real" ones do.In practice, this completely artificial distinction between "real" and "not real" is being pushed to our brain by other people, the society, and the media. Just because you can easily get something with your brain, without any cost, doesn't make it less real.Any child that hasn't lost yet the ability to imagine things will prove you that.
Docking in space.
I'm finishing working on the first pass of the draft of my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book and I need the help of volunteers. In the middle of the process, I decided that I will include in the book code snippets to illustrate various concepts and techniques. I also decided that where possible, I will provide snippets in both Python and R.I'm good with Python but my R is rusty. I look for volunteers who would like to help me with writing and validating code snippets in R. If you want to help, you should understand Python and be able to write *concise but understandable* object-oriented R code that works as similar as possible (in the meaning, not the form) to the Python code snippets I prepare.Write to me at author@mlebook.com if you are interested.
The Futurium by Richter Musikowski, Berlin, Germany.
The Pink Mamma restaurant, Paris, France.
Natural History Museum, London, UK.
Ahmed MSELLEK with my book near the Eiffel Tower in Paris, France.
The New York Times front-page depicting the rise in unemployment claims.
Breaking news: time spent looking at exponential graphs grows exponentially!
The Santiago Bahá'í temple, Santiago, Chile.
The tenth issue of the AI newsletter is out! Enjoy it? Forward it to your friends and colleagues.
The Galleria shopping center by OMA architects, Gwanggyo, South Korea.
Aqua Building, Chicago, IL.
People "working" in the stock market behave like unicellular: stimulus-response:There's an unknown virus? Sell everything for any price.People stay at home? Buy Domino's stock for any price.People work remotely? Buy Zoom stock for any price.There's an anticrisis plan? Buy everything once again, sell Zoom and Domino's.Doesn't seem like they even can think farther than direct associations.
I'm online since 1998, and I still cannot understand one thing. Why groups/communities in social networks are so hard to do right? On Facebook, the content of groups is 99% spam. On LinkedIn, nobody uses groups, they are like ghost towns. Twitter doesn't have communities, but their hashtags are also mostly used to spam.What's so hard in building usable groups?
So many people ask online what is the most useful or powerful machine learning algorithm. Simple logic suggests that if there was one such algorithm, we would already forget the names of other algorithms. People don't just keep an inventory of multiple algorithms for fun.
This AI-powered robot recycler.
Coronavirus outbreak tests how united we actually are as humanity (hint: we fail). Before the crisis, we often heard from politicians and human-right activists that we are all human, each life counts, and it doesn't matter where a person in danger comes from: we have to stay united and help.What do we see today? EU countries forbid selling critical medical equipment to other EU countries. In the US and Canada, governments are criticized for sending help to affected countries during the early days of the crisis.Are we "every man for himself" or are we all human? Did we mean those words we said about unity and solidarity, before the crisis, or they were just words?
Montréal, QC.
NASA astronauts Steven Smith and John Grunsfeld servicing the Hubble Space Telescope, 1999.
Zuhair Murad, Spring-Summer 2020.
The more I learn about viruses the more I realize that an average human being is more stupid than their own immune system.
The icons that no longer have their shape representing their meaning.
Whether you think you can, or think you cannnot‚ you're right. — Henry Ford
Politicians in all countries: "we must forget for a while about our contradictions and work together for the common good."What for they have been working until now, if not for the common good?
Florence, Italy. One of the most beautiful places on Earth.
The lesson this pandemics will teach humanity:- the education system is out of date- in 90% of the cases, in-person meetings can be avoided- most of the office work can be done from anywhere- about a third of people do the work we can do without- important decisions for the society (finance and economy) are made by non-experts out of fear- when scientists speak, we would rather listen to them
A couple of years ago, Google created a game, called Quick, Draw! in which a neural network recognizes your finger drawings. The game is still there and I believe your kids would enjoy it!
Ginza Place by Klein Dytham Architecture, Chuo, Japan.
The Korčula Island, Croatia.
While I personally don't see much need in explainable machine learning (I once compared that with a need of having explainable police or airport dogs) but if others feel the need, I don't mind.Most agree that decision trees are the most explainable models, but they are not accurate. At the same time, forests of trees or boosted trees are accurate but not explainable.So I'm thinking whether we can train a neural network to output a decision tree instead of an actual prediction. Will it work? Did you see progress on anything like that?
Abraj Al Bait, Mecca.
The science fiction magazine tor.com mentioned my book in one of its articles today and I instantly sold 60 copies of the book.Once an organization wanted to upskill their employees in AI, so they ordered 150 books in one day. Sometimes that happens, like winning a lottery.
In this TED talk from 2015, Bill Gates predicted this epidemic, warned about it, said we are not ready to it but still have a chance to get prepared before it emerges.
In a typical machine learning project:60% is data discovery/transformation/creation,30% is coding not related to machine learning,10% is actual machine learning.
Precision cutting by the Beijing Jingdiao Group.
Sacra di San Michele, Piedmont, Italy.
Kung Fu student asks his teacher: "Master, why does my ability not improve? I'm always defeated."And the master, pensive and forever patient, answers: "My dear pupil, have you seen the gulls flying by the setting sun, and their wings seeming like flames?""Yes, my master, I have.""And a waterfall, spilling mightly over the stones without taking anything out of its proper place?""Yes, my master, I have witnessed it.""And the moon... when it touches the calm water to reflect all its enormous beauty?""Yes, my master, I have also seen this marvelous phenomenon.""That is the problem. You keep watching all this shit instead of training."
Pont de Quebec, Quebec City, QC.
The Bayesian trap:You were diagnosed with a rare disease. The test is 99% positive. Should you be scared? No, if you know statistics :-)
The emergence of a virus like Covid-19 is seen by many as a force majeure, something no one could predict. Though, there's absolutely no reason to believe that such viruses, or even worse, could not emerge once a year or more often.Viruses are products of random mutations. We have trillions of living species on Earth. Our planet is a huge Petri dish whose only product is a survival machine. For viruses, survival means the subjugation of other living species.We have and use technology that allows us to predict and be ready for an impact with an asteroid. But for viruses, we don't have anything like that. Though we believe, for no reason, that something like Covid-19 cannot happen too often for us to be constantly ready for that.However, we already have the technology capable of effectively countering situations like that: robots. Robots can grow food, produce essential goods, distribute them across the city. Robots can take care of a sick person. Governments must invest in a "survival kit" for the entire country and prepare a protocol that everyone must follow during the emergency. Next covid-19 can happen much earlier than we might guess.
This community of specialists works on designing an open-source ventilator that can be 3D printed: https://lnkd.in/e_zEzGCJoin the community if you want to help.
With all that coronavirus craze, I forgot to prepare the new issue of my weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter! Here's #9, enjoy and please share among your friends and colleagues.
The glass brick facade of a Hermes store in Amsterdam (by MVDR architects).
Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon.
How tower cranes "build themselves".
How the augmented reality technology helps professional ping pong players train.
It's a screenshot from The Guardian article from 2015: https://lnkd.in/e8gvvXGThey don't say "you might become a permanent backseat driver." They say "you will." Imagine how many investment, education, and business decisions were made in 2015 based on such titles?This is all you need to know about technology journalism.
From a job posting:"Experience in data mining and/or artificial intelligence (big data)"Clearly, the employer knows what they are talking about.
Lenticular cloud in Torres del Paine National Park, Chile.
The GitHub repository of my book reached the 1000 stars mark!
A Falcon9 launch.
Ring House by DecaArchitecture, Crete, Greece.
Proud to find out that my book was named one of the top 10 data science and AI books for 2020: https://lnkd.in/eHb4uh5
People mostly focus on negative aspects of what's happening, and it's understandable. But are there any positive outcomes of this situation with the coronavirus? Many!First of all the most evident one: we, as a society, for the first time in decades are fighting against a common evil. People do something daily to care about other people. This is pleasant to see.However, the biggest positive impact this crisis has is on our kids. It might not be obvious to many parents what's so good about that for kids. I explain. When the Soviet Union collapsed, I was 10 years old. It was the hardest time on my parents (and basically all parents): no job, no electricity, empty shelves in all stores, rampant crime.At the same time, we, as kids, enjoyed that time the most. We waited for the night to come because we expected that the electricity will shut down, and, while our parents light the candles in the kitchen and prepare dinner, we played hide and seek in the darkness. Then the entire family gathered in one room and we listened to the radio, talked, and played cards.My daughters almost never played together. This week they played Playstation every morning, laughed, and enjoyed each other's company. They will remember this period as something that makes their generation special.
Meskimen's Law of Time: There is never enough time to do it right, but there is always enough time to do it over.
Once you get a PhD, every meeting you go to becomes a doctor's appointment.
This situation with the coronavirus has shown that politicians are generally incapable of making important decisions. Overall, we have got proof that a political system in which the power belongs to charismatic leaders rather than subject matter experts is weak in the face of serious challenges.The decision about the country, be it about investments, healthcare or education, must be taken by scientists either based on data or to gather data, and not by people who look good on camera and can talk on random topics for hours and caring only about how well they will perform during the next elections.
Palau de les Arts Reina Sofia, Valencia, Spain.
Conde B. McCullough Memorial Bridge, North Bend, Oregon.
An honest question. I believe that most countries are now in quarantine: borders and schools closed, people work from home if they can. But what next? Are we waiting for no new cases of coronavirus recorded in the country and then open borders and all go out? If I understand well, the spread might just start over. If we wait for the entire world to declare no new cases, we can wait forever. Did I miss something?
A 1938 Bugatti Type 57.
While you are in quarantine, here are the movies on artificial intelligence and related matters that I recommend you to watch:1. Her (Spike Jonze, 2014)2. Ex Machina (Alex Garland, 2015)3. Moneyball (Bennett Miller, 2011)4. Blade Runner (Ridley Scott, 1982)5. 2001: A Space Odyssey (Stanley Kubrick, 1968)6. The Imitation Game (Morten Tyldum, 2014)7. A Beautiful Mind (Ron Howard, 2001)8. Good Will Hunting (Gus Van Sant, 1998)9. Margin Call (J. C. Chandor, 2011)10. Manhunt: Unabomber (Greg Yaitanes, 2017)11. Blade Runner 2049 (Denis Villeneuve, 2017)12. Upgrade (Leigh Whannell, 2018)Bonus recommendations from my subscribers:Pi (Darren Aronofsky, 1998)A Beautiful Mind (Ron Howard, 2001)The Man Who Knew Infinity (Matthew Brown, 2015)Upgrade (Leigh Whannell, 2018)I am Mother (Grant Sputore, 2019)The Matrix (The Wachowskis, 1999)Arrival (Denis Villeneuve, 2016)The Big Short (Adam McKay, 2015)Ghost in the Shell (Rupert Sanders, 2017)War Games (John Badham, 1983)Minority Report (Steven Spielberg, 2002)A.I. Artificial Intelligence (Steven Spielberg, 2001)Silicon Valley (2014, TV series)
Falkenstein's Viaduct on the Tauern railroad, Austria.
Save more than $15 (38%) on buying the paperback edition of my book on Amazon right now. I don't control the discount, so I don't know how long it will last!(If you order, make sure that the book Sold by and ships from Amazon)
Las Lajas Sanctuary, Ipiales, Colombia.
This is what the canals of Venice look like after 5 days of no human traffic due to coronavirus outbreak.
The spread of COVID-19 shown on the World map: every purple dot is a single confirmed case, green is a recovery, and red is a death.
Natural History Museum, London, UK.
My Artificial Intelligence newsletter on LinkedIn, just after 8 issues, has more than 30,000 subscribers!Subscribe and recommend the newsletter to your friends and colleagues. The link to subscribe is in the comments.
The Fall in Vermont.
Scary times. People must wash their hands, cook at home, talk to their children. What next? Reading?
The wheel of emotions.
Dilbert is right.
A Tokyo subway map.
Chicago, IL.
Ok, now this is big. Who can advise whether to buy now or wait for more? :-)
A treehouse cabin in Hangzhou, China.
If you want to stay informed of the important news in the domain of artificial intelligence and especially machine learning, you can subscribe to the mailing list Artificial Intelligence I publish once a week. Each issue contains 10 links I found the most interesting during the week.You can find all the issues in the Articles section of my profile and subscribeby clicking the Subscribe button in an article. You will receive the issues on your email address registered with LinkedIn.
A rare direct observation of an exoplanetary system of R 8799, a roughly 30 million-year-old star located 129 light-years (39.6 parsecs) away from Earth in the constellation of Pegasus.
One frequent question I receive on LinkedIn is whether to do a master's in data science or a "usual" master's in science or engineering.I do not recommend doing a master's in data science unless what you want is to advance data science as a field (that is, invent new ways of storing, processing, and visualizing data). If, after studies, your goal is to become a data scientist in industry and use the data science toolkit for solving practical and business problems, do a "usual" master's where your task for two years would be to solve some complex scientific or engineering problem.The skills you will earn that way would be much more hands-on and practical, and directly applicable to your future job as a data scientist.
Sucel Palomares, a molecular biology researcher from Denmark, with my book. Thank you, Sucel, for the photo!
The eight issue of my weekly AI newsletter. Enjoy and share with friends and colleagues!
Singapore.
1969 Mustang. There were times.
Seriously people, toilet paper? It doesn't protect from the coronavirus and a death from starvation. This is what you need: gasoline, spaghetti, cooked or smoked sausages or meat, bread, milk, eggs, orange juice and frozen fruits. Toilet paper. Seriously.
Amazon bestsellers in AI.
— Hello, do you have any motivational books?— Yes, over there, on the far shelf.— Anything closer?
Share one thing you regret you didn't do when you were younger. Mine: I underestimated the value of math and physics classes and only learned enough to pass an exam and get an A. The knowledge I have got was rather mechanical that allowed me to solve exercises from books and didn't end up in the long-term memory.When I entered the Master's and then Ph.D. program in Canada, I had to re-learn many things to understand scientific papers, and it was much harder to do than when I was young.What's yours?
An idea for a startup:The retail price of one barrel is $35, the price of one barrel of oil is $33. So, we buy up all the barrels of oil, then drain the oil and sell barrels!
Free Library of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA.
I think the job interview process is not fair: the employer has more rights to ask difficult questions, while the candidate must only ask convenient questions. What if the process was fair?On the question "Why do you want to leave your current employer?" the candidate would ask "Why did the person who freed this place left your organization?"On the question: "What is your current salary?" the candidate would ask "What are the wages of people holding a similar position in your organization?"On the question "What didn't you like the most about your last job?" the candidate would say "What do you hate about your organization?"Do you have other counterquestions? Share in the comments!
Toronto, ON.
Because of the discouragement from doctors of touching one's face during the epidemy of the coronavirus, many software companies had to temporarily abandon the practice of code review.
A SpaceX Starhopper working prototype.
Rechtswissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Zurich, Switzerland.
One World Trade Center, New York, NY.
The draft of Chapter 8 Model Serving and Monitoring of my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book is now available online: https://lnkd.in/ehPnt46The chapter considers such aspects as- Properties of the Model Serving Runtime,- Model Serving Modes- Model Serving in Real World- Model MonitoringPrevious chapters are also available on the book's website. You will find the link in the comments.As usual, I would be grateful for comments and text improvement suggestions. Please leave them directly in the online chapter.
My new Machine Learning Engineering book is already 249 pages. So, as I told in the very beginning, it will be about 300 pages, which is cool and not too overwhelming. Tomorrow, be ready for Chapter 8 Model Serving and Monitoring.For all who contributed to the previous chapters with corrections and suggestions, thank you very much! I feel so blessed to be surrounded and supported by people like you. I will try to review all new comments in all chapters during the week.Update: released https://lnkd.in/ehPnt46
Everyone talks about the possibility of a global economic crisis, but apparently not many people know what that might mean for an ordinary person.As someone who survived the Soviet Union collapse, here's one example. My dad bought his first car (Lada) just before the collapse for 9,000 rubles and paid in cash. To get that incredible amount of money, my parents asked all our relatives and friends to lend us 3,000 rubles our family missed.Three months later my dad bought my first scooter for 180,000 rubles (this time we borrowed in a bank). At the same time, the friends of our family, those who understood how the economy works, borrowed in all available banks as much as they could borrow, dozens of millions of rubles, and bought real estate.A year later, I bought milk and bread for millions rubles.
China:1) establishes a quarantine zone2) people remain insideEurope:1) talks about establishing a quarantine zone2) people who wanted to escape it do escape3) establishes a quarantine zone
Hyatt Regency, San Francisco, CA.
— What is your main weakness?— I correctly interpret the semantics of the question, but completely ignore its point.— Could you give an example?— I could.
Via57 West, New York, NY.
Mercedes-Benz 300SL Gullwing (1957).
A rare archive photo: Stalin laughs at an outdated Churchill's smartphone.
The King Power MahaNakhon building, Bangkok, Thailand.
Any company is only as good as the people it employs. In great companies, the hiring principle is "we would rather make a mistake and not hire an excellent employee than make a bigger mistake and hire an average one."Great people tend to work with great people and also tend to leave the company that, once great, gradually becomes average.I think that any modern organization must have "The Greatness Department" that makes sure (by using questionaries, interviews, external reviews, and statistics) that the organization not just remains great but its "greatness index" improves year over year.
Kericho, Kenya: tea and eucalyptus.
A classical machine learning model, including neural networks, is notoriously incapable of doing something that it wasn't trained on. However, for at least one modern form of machine learning, namely zero-shot learning, it's not entirely true. Indeed, a model trained in the zero-shotting setting can learn to predict a tiger on a photo even if it was never exposed to images of tigers.While nobody knows how to move towards building thinking and dreaming machines, I believe that zero-shot learning is the most promising direction of research today.
Henge Hill house, San Mateo County, CA.
The word "nothing" is a palindrome."Nothing" reversed gives "Gnihton", which also means nothing.
Solna Station, Stockholm.
Ten most important AI links of the week.
Obsession of Google with recent web pages and its inability to understand that the same information, just written differently and of better quality, already exists in the index, lead to thousands of technology bloggers blogging about the same thing over and over again, but with decreasing quality, because they just paraphrase articles published in previous years by smarter people who paraphrased text from books.
The building of the Hungarian Parliament (Országház). The view from the other side of the Danube.
A book lamp.
Both my books were featured on the list of the best machine learning books for 2020 by FloydHub:
— Forget everything you learned in college. You won't need it working here.— But I never went to college.— Well then, I'm sorry. You are underqualified to work here.
Szczecin, Poland.
==
New York City, NY.
Dilbert nailed it.
If you thought Microsoft invented Windows, it didn't. It was Xerox, in 1981, in the Xerox Star computer.
My book in Canberra, Australia with Rob Costello.
San Francisco, CA.
I can't believe that Quora doesn't allow making a dump of its data. And not just that: it doesn't let archive.org crawl its website. The latter means that if tomorrow Quora goes bankrupt, all knowledge is lost.Why do people still contribute to Quora?
Sveti Stefan, Montenegro.
The key to success in machine learning is imagination. More precisely, the ability to imagine what the machine would "think".
Oh, Venice.
Starfield Library, Seoul, Korea.
The T-Centralen metro station, Stockholm, Sweden.
Jupiter.
50% of railroads in the UK are abandoned.
Cathédrale Sainte-Croix d’Orléans, Loiret, France.
The Taal volcano, Philippines.
The draft of Chapter 7 Model Deployment of my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book is now online. It discusses such aspects as deployment patterns, deployment strategies and gives practical advice on code efficiency, model and code packaging, and automated deployment to production.Here's the link to the chapter: https://lnkd.in/eixbUJzIt's a draft, so please leave your comments and suggestions directly in the chapter file.Previous chapters are also available on the book's website: www.mlebook.com
The sixth issue of the kind-of-weekly Artificial Intelligence newsletter. Subscribe to receive it in your inbox!
The transit of Venus across the face of the sun."Over a six-hour period on June 5-6 2012, the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) collected images in many wavelengths of one of the rarest predictable solar events: the transit of Venus across the face of the sun. These transits occur in pairs eight years apart that are separated from each other by 105 or 121 years. The last transit was in 2004 and the next will not happen until 2117."
The Odenplan metro station in Stockholm, Sweden.
The Model Deployment chapter of my upcoming Machine Learning Engineering book is ready. Will release it tomorrow morning!
The world’s largest (500m in diameter) radio telescope in Guizhou, China.
The view of Los Angeles from the Griffith Observatory where Arthur Baronov recently was with my book.
A Louis Vuitton store in Osaka, Japan by architects Jun Aoki and Peter Marino.
Look for a PhD project? Download those 68,000,000,000 melodies and build a system that can predict which one of those will be a chart hit.(Update after a while) OMG, the project would have so many exciting pieces! For example, the prediction has to take the cultural and temporal context into account. What would be a hit today would not be a hit 5 years ago. Musical arrangement plays an important role in a song becoming a hit. Lyrics too. And a huge history of hits is available. So much room for experiments!
My post from 2016: "We should stop saying "artificial intelligence" when talking about machine learning. Machine Learning, at present, at best approaches a human reflex, so the term "artificial reflex" would be much more appropriate. Currently, scientists have no clue about how to make the machine learn something more than a simple reflex."Nothing changed.
Mitchell's Law of Committees: Any simple problem can be made insoluble if enough meetings are held to discuss it.
Damien Riehl and Noah Rubin algorithmically generated every possible melody and then released them to the public domain.To determine the finite nature of melodies, Riehl and Rubin developed an algorithm that recorded every possible 8-note, 12-beat melody combo. This used the same basic tactic some hackers use to guess passwords: Churning through every possible combination of notes until none remained. Riehl says this algorithm works at a rate of 300,000 melodies per second (total of  68,000,000,000 melodies).Rubin and Riehl released these melodies using a Creative Commons Zero license, which means they have “no rights reserved.”This is how technology helps society.All of the melodies they've generated, as well as the code for the algorithm that generated them, are available as open-source materials on Github and the datasets are on Internet Archive:
Toledo metro station, Naples, Italy.
Elie Saab, Fall 2016.
Open living room with concrete in Sao Jose Dos Campos, Brazil.
The Italian edition of my book is now available on Amazon as Kindle as well as paperback. This is a result of the hard work of the translator Marco Dieterich and the copyeditor Angelo Basile and is the last translated edition produced by myself. I feel happy and relieved. Now I can fully concentrate on finishing writing the second book.You can order a paperback here: https://lnkd.in/e6Saw9Y and a Kindle here: https://lnkd.in/eSz_2jZMy book is now available in English, Italian, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Korean, Japanese, Chinese and will also be available in Russian in two days.(Please note that similar to the books in other languages that I published on Amazon, the Kindle edition is a so-called "print replica" which means that it's basically a PDF, so you cannot modify the font face and size.)
Beijing Daxing International Airport.
In a speech at a small Methodist college in Japan shortly after leaving the White House in 1981, President Jimmy Carter began his speech with a joke. The interpreter delivered it in Japanese, and the audience erupted in laughter. Impressed with the interpreter's skill, he asked how the interpreter managed to get such a laugh. Eventually, the interpreter admitted that he had said, "President Carter told a funny story. Everyone must laugh."
A summer house in Pyrgos, Greece.
Another success of the deepfakes technology: Robert Downey Jr. as Doc in Back to the Future.
Tianjin Binhai Library, Tianjin, China.
Prove you aren't a robot.
Visovac Monastery, Visovac island, Croatia.
The Aigulle du Midi Skywalk, on the Mont Blanc massif near Chamonix, France.
I feel blessed that so many wonderful people help me with the quality of the book with such dedication.
Seoul, South Korea.
My book in Munich, Germany with Nikolina Antoniadou.
Dear scientific and engineering bloggers. I recommend you to reconsider the usage of Medium as a blogging platform. If your primary interest is to spread knowledge then you should know that Medium restricts access to the knowledge you share only to those who pay.If your goal is to make money and Medium shares revenue with you then, of course, you have a reason to stay on Medium but, honestly, how much does Medium pay you for your efforts? Is it worth hiding the knowledge behind a paywall and losing opportunities for reputation growth?All modern computer science and especially machine learning and AI research is published in open archives, such as arXiv. All researchers I know and heard of refuse to publish their work if a journal or a conference doesn't allow republishing on arXiv or doesn't host the publications on their own websites.Believe me, I published a bestseller that anyone can read online without registration and any payment. In the modern knowledge and reputation-based economy, sharing is better than hiding.Share the knowledge and you will do as the most progressive people do.
The most difficult is to learn to read between the lines. But once learned, you realize that all books are actually the same.
I use Spotify and initially, its recommendations were good but for the last several months they keep recommending me the same songs or the songs that I already had in my playlist and then removed. They also seemingly don't put a higher weight on the music I listened to more recently or listen to more often.Do you know a good music recommendation system where I can enter bands or songs I like a lot and get good recommendations of what I might also like?I don't mind if it takes some time to train it as long as, in the end, its recommendations are very good.
Symi, Greece.
The fifth issue of my kind-of-weekly AI newsletter is now released.
These people's job is to sit on the red carpet and show celebrities where to stand.
My book in Luxemburg with Asier Goikoetxea.
The Bublik Apartments in Moscow, Russia.
World, 2010: Big data!World, 2020: meh :-/EU, 2020: Big data!
Space Shuttle over Los Angeles, 23 September 2012.
As you probably noticed, in the recent two chapters of the Machine Learning Engineering book, I started to generously add Python and R code. I think that I will continue that way when the code snippet that illustrates an idea doesn't take more than half a page.If you want to contribute the code for the earlier chapters (and to get a special mention in the book) please send the code, both Python and R to author@mlebook.com. Please mention the chapter number and the equation or the algorithm mentioned in the book you want to complete with your code.The conditions for the code are: 1) be readable and 2) not rely on non-mainstream libraries. For Python, the mainstream libraries are scikit-learn, pandas and numpy/scipy. For R, I'm less an expert.For neural networks, I decided to use PyTorch. I'm not sure if anyone programs neural networks in R. Do you know any mainstream NN library for R? Write in the comments.The link to the first six book chapters is in the comments to this post.
Simply scientists.
